Respect
[music]
the trend, but don't ignore the risks.
As we go into 2026,
>> earnings are going to be what drive
stock prices.
>> You're going to see a [music] lot of
turning, but have moderate returns.
>> I still think tech is long-term
leadership.
>> There's a 30% [music] chance that you
get a full-on bubble next year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into 26 hitting the ground [music]
running.
>> We're going to run the country until
such time as we can do a safe, proper,
and judicious
transition.
>> President Trump is done negotiating. He
proved that
>> we are not going to be able to allow in
our hemisphere a country [music] that
becomes a crossroads for the activities
of all of our adversaries around the
world.
>> The United States striking Venezuela,
capturing Nicola Maduro as President
Donald Trump vows to quote run the
country for now and markets adjust to an
uncertain future for the biggest oil
reserves anywhere on the planet.
>> John, it's great to have you back.
Welcome back this morning.
Congratulations, especially after what
we saw this weekend. A [music] seismic
shift when it comes to geopolitics and
US foreign policy. A stunning raid, a
bold moment for the United States,
capturing Nicholas Maduro, who is
[music] now just mere miles away from
where we are sitting in Brooklyn and a
New York prison. When you look at what's
going on, Trump continuously spoke over
the weekend about plans for US oil
companies to go tap those [music]
reserves. There's only one US oil
company there right now, and they've
been there for 100 years, and that's
Chevron. Will others actually follow
suit? I think we have to make a note
that over the weekend, impressively
clean move over the weekend. [music] The
question now is how messy is the next
move going to be? How messy are the
weeks, months, and maybe years, decades
going to be still to come?
>> I think one of the most important
statements we had over the weekend is
actually from Deli Rodriguez. This is an
individual [music] who's a Maduro
loyalist. She was number two. She's now
the acting VP. Over the weekend, she
called with the United States did
[music] barbaric. She said it was a
kidnapping and then there was a change
of tone yesterday. [music] She said, "We
extend an invitation to the US
government to work together [music] on a
cooperation agenda." Does this
administration think they can actually
work with Deli Rodriguez? And if so,
what does that look like for US oil
interests as well as geopolitically in
[music] terms of pushing back China,
pushing back Iran, and pushing back
Russia in the Western Hemisphere?
>> You mentioned Chevron. That's a stock to
watch this morning. That stock up nicely
in the pre-market for the broader
market. Equity futures so far positive
by 0.3%.
Coming up this hour, [music] a stack 60
Minutes. We'll catch up with Robert
Koigberger of Grammacy as the US sees
Venezuela's leader. Lori Cavverino of
RBC Capital joins us on the outlook for
stocks in 2026 and JRT Barawatch of TD
Securities calling for a potential
dollar crash by the middle of this year.
We begin this hour with our top story.
The White House taking control of
Venezuela's leadership. President Trump
saying the US will run the country for
now.
We're going to run the country until
such time as we can do a safe, proper,
and judicious transition.
>> President Trump is done negotiating. He
proved that
>> we are not going to be able to allow in
our hemisphere a country that becomes a
crossroads for the activities of all of
our adversaries around the world.
>> So, here's the latest so far this
morning. Venezuelan leader set to appear
in court in New York City later on
today. Bloomberg's Mika Sa joins us now
from Washington for more. Washington no
doubt maker interrogating the rationale
for the moves over the weekend. What's
the latest so far this morning?
>> Yeah, absolutely. A lot of lawmakers on
Capitol Hill as well as well as many
conservatives around the Trump movement
and his organization as well as the uh
the White House have a lot of questions
about what's going on here in terms of
the White House's posturing on
Venezuela. Uh you know, we're going to
see the president meet with House
Republicans tomorrow. I think there
there will be a lot of questions raised.
Uh a lot of uh the contentment has
fallen on party lines in terms of the
response to this, but this could be a
move in terms of how Trump is going to
posture in other countries moving
forward as well.
>> In many ways, this administration being
refreshingly transparent about what the
objectives actually are. In fact,
incredibly transparent in the national
security strategy that they put out at
the end of last year in November 2025,
which makes me wonder if they're this
open and honest about what they're doing
in Venezuela. What's next? Who's next
and where should we be looking?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, President
Trump has hinted at other areas of the
world where he believes that there is an
level of unfairness or national security
interests at risk there. So, he's
mentioned uh Panama for example or even
uh Greenland. And these are areas that
we could be looking at, but he's also
issued warnings in other places in South
America. It's the Colombian president
for example. So, everyone's going to be
watching with the great scrutiny in
terms of what Trump does next. And I
think this is a great message in terms
of how he's going to play out the next
three years of his administration.
>> Mika, thank you. Mika Sera down in
Washington. We'll have more from Mika
later on in the show. This came out in
late November. Take a look at this
quote. The United States will reassert
and enforce the Monroe Doctrine to
restore American preeminence in the
Western Hemisphere. They couldn't have
been any clearer.
>> Page five, page 15 of that document
you're talking about. They were talking
about now the as he's calling it over
the weekend the Donroe doctrine on how
they want to make sure they are shoring
up national security concerns in the
Western Hemisphere and the president was
pretty honest about Venezuela for the
entire year and now he's talking about
Cuba Colombia he's had threats towards
Iran as well as Greenland all in the
last 72 hours.
>> Here's the view on Wall Street so far
this morning. Robert Codexburgger of
Grammar Funds, one of the leaders in
emerging market investing, writing the
following. The immediate goal was the
removal of Maduro. Objective achieved.
The current path is a small R regime
change. This is the optimal option.
Robert joins us now for more. Robert,
welcome to the program. I know you
mentioned this going into year end.
Thinking about 2026 and beyond as we go
through the National Security Review
coming out of the administration. As you
take a step back and think about things,
how does reasserting the so-called
Monroe Doctrine change the market map in
Latin America and maybe beyond?
Good morning and uh happy
[clears throat] new year and welcome
back. So look, I mean I think what u to
to start with what what occurred
yesterday was was not really regime
change. It was um you know the
extraction of of the leader or really
decapitation of the the leadership of of
this regime. So as we go forward and
think about you know what's what's going
to happen in in Venezuela, it looks like
the current base cases Deli Rodriguez
the the vice president will lead some
sort of transition. Hence the the small
R regime change that we that we talked
about before when we pull the lens back
on on Latin America. I mean certainly um
and as I mentioned on this show LA last
month, you know, I totally agree. I
think what what this is about is not
about necessarily the redemocratization
of of Venezuela, but the recapturing of
the Americas for the United States. You
know, the Monroe Doctrine, the Roosevelt
corollary, and now what everybody's
calling the the Trump corollary or the
the Dunroe doctrine. So what does it
means? Different things for different
countries. You know, hearing previous
speakers this morning talk about
Colombia. You know, I'm less concerned
about seeing action in Colombia.
Colombia's got an election uh coming
later this year where it's pretty clear
that the the right is uh scheduled to to
to return to power. You know, action
there could only probably hurt the right
and actually bolden the left. So that
probably wouldn't be a a great move. Uh
but look, there's a move towards the
right in Latin America and these things
tend to happen in in trends, you know,
towards dictatorships, towards
democratization. Um and I think we're
seeing a move towards democratization.
>> We've seen that in Chile, in Bolivia, in
Argentina, certainly governments that
align more closely with the thinking of
the current administration. Robert, are
there limits to this? How much further
can things go in places like Brazil? Do
you believe the pendulum will swing back
in the other direction there, too?
>> Yeah, I mean, it's hard to say. I mean,
the the the leader of the left is is not
a young individual. Um, and Brazil has
its its its challenges. You know, Brazil
reminds me a little bit more of uh of
Argentina where there's just this core
base of the left within uh within Brazil
that will always support Lula or whoever
Lula supports. So, I think Brazil will
be interesting. I think the the jury is
still uh out out on that.
>> We heard from Panama's leader over the
weekend who said that Deli Rodriguez is
Madorism without Maduro. Do you think
she can generally change the country and
the US could direct interest towards
Washington with her in power?
>> Look, I think it's possible. I mean, I
think the the the bet that the
administration made is that um, you
know, let's say that leaving her in
place was the least worst option or the,
you know, the optimal option. And what I
mean by that is going from, you know,
Maduro to Machado was probably a bridge
too far. And that, you know, Machado and
the opposition hadn't really
demonstrated that they could control the
state. The problem with Venezuela today
is the the state has been destroyed over
the past 20 25 years. So there needs to
be a you know elections tomorrow and
putting in the opposition is not going
to solve the issues of Venezuela. I
think you need to start by rebuilding uh
the state itself, the institutions, the
courts, what have you before you can
expect to uh you know have
democratization uh take hold for a long
period of time.
>> Do you think American CEOs will follow
suit and will want to go back into
Venezuela?
>> I do. um you know particularly around
the uh the the oil sector you know as
previous guests have mentioned you know
Chevron's there today wouldn't be
surprised to see Konico Philip and
others uh you know the repsolves of the
world but then you go below that you
have all the suppliers you know the the
uh the shambraes or the halleberttons of
the world and then folks below those
that need to be supplied so I do think
there's going to be a big exodus when
you think about Venezuela think about
prior states that had failed that needed
to be rebuilt you know what comes to
mind for me is like Peru when Fuji my
came in a complete rebuilding of the
state, you know, financial services,
insurance, banks, what have you, grocery
stores. I mean, the just the basic
things for a country and also Iraq. I
mean, look at the if you want to think
about the potential for Venezuela today,
think about Iraq. When the when the
Marines invaded, they were doing about a
million barrels a day. Today, they're
doing 5 million barrels a day. The GDP
was something like 25 billion. Today,
it's 250 billion. So, there's tremendous
that type of tremendous potential in
Venezuela today. And I think it's going
to be hard for American and
international CEOs to ignore that.
>> So, Robert, these are companies that in
the past have been burnt. Do you think
they'd be willing to make a multi-deade
commitment at this point? And what do
you think companies like the ones we're
talking about would need to see before
they really put money to work?
>> Yeah, I mean, I would suspect, John,
that it would be incrementalism that,
you know, if if a new company's going to
come come to Venezuela or come back to
Venezuela, it's not going to be, you
know, all in at once, but it'd be
incrementalism. And if you look at uh
you know Chevron, they're not doing
today what necessary they were doing
yesterday, but they're hoping to do more
tomorrow. So I think everyone would
think about a foothold today. Um you
know, the the Rodriguez administration
is clearly uh uh a transition
government. If I were going to
Venezuela, I'd want to understand what
that trans transition was toward and how
strong that new transition would be
before I went, you know, all in.
>> So the Rodriguez government at this
point, I'm not sure if they'd see it
quite the same way. They understand that
this is obviously not going to be the
finished article, but ultimately,
Robert, I wonder, we didn't see much
resistance over the weekend. How much
resistance would you expect to see in
the coming weeks and months?
>> Look, I mean, I I think um the lack of
resistance demonstrates that there was
some sort of collaboration before the
extraction. Um and I wouldn't be
surprised to see you know some sort of
quid proquo which is you you behave this
administration this transition you
behave in a certain fashion you know you
will get the immunity of let's get you
know transition to to new elections and
you know there are examples in Latin
America of leftist regimes that were
dictatorships that um participated
democratically u and lost and came back.
I'm [snorts] thinking about, you know,
Nicaragua in the early 1990s. You know,
the Sandinistas controlled Nicaragua for
a decade. There was an election, Daniel
Ortega lost, and then then in following
elections, he was able to come back. So,
that may be the path for the Chavistas,
which is some short-term loss for some
medium-term to long-term prospects.
>> Robert, as you know, there's a lot of
distress debt connected with the story.
I just wonder from your perspective, how
you're thinking about how much recovery
assumptions should shift and the limits
to how much it should shift.
>> Sure. Sure. I mean, if you look at at
prices this morning, I mean, think
Venezuelan bond prices, Pedabesa bond
prices are up about eight points. So
that's 20% on Venezuela, 30% on on
Pedabesa. Uh, and that compares to, you
know, they're probably both up three to
four times since the sanctions were
lifted in in October of 23. So there's
been quite a run. And I'd say the the
asymmetry that was there is certainly uh
not there today. But that being said, if
you look at the type of state that the
Trump administration is signaling will
be built, um there can certainly be more
upside. I would expect that upside to be
maybe the pot of gold to be a little
further out. Um but the uh but the
reward higher and I think the key is
going to be what type of restructuring
ensues and when that ensues and I
wouldn't expect that during the
transition government. I I would be
surprised. Typically, you need to see a
stable government that's signaling
multilateral harmony and and then
signaling a a bond restructuring. It's
certainly not their their first
priority, but you know, I would think
about some sort of patient capital bond
approach where um the long-term value of
Venezuela is is undeniable um and bond
holders, stakeholders, you know,
companies, foreign direct investment.
The challenge would be how does
everybody come together in a fashion
that's not a zero- sum game. Robert, for
the people who had the foresight to get
in early, they might see developments
over the weekend as an exit point, not
an entry point, and they're thinking
about the next trade related to this
story, just one piece of a much bigger
puzzle. What's your approach to that at
the moment?
>> Look, I mean, I I I was asked about um
this more broadly yesterday in terms of
uh you know, is there going to be this
flood of new investment into Venezuela?
And we have to remind ourselves that
this is still an OFAC restricted
country. In fact, the president herself
is a u a sanctioned individual. The head
of the congress is a sanctioned
individual. So, in order for uh the
floodgates to open up to Venezuela,
there's going to have to be a change in
the sanctions regime. U and that
certainly hasn't occurred yet. And what
I mean by that is you just couldn't
simply get on an airplane if the Caucus
airport was open and start knocking on
doors and having conversations because
these are still sanctioned individuals.
Um that being said, there's a lot of
examples in in emerging markets over the
past 10, 20, 30, 40 years. uh that
there's certainly upside from prices
here in the 30s.
>> Robert, good to see you. Let's catch up
again soon. This story is not going away
anytime soon. Robert Kingsburg there of
Grammar Funds Management following the
stunning developments over the weekend.
Big question I think for many is this
Panama of the late 80s or is it Libya
decades later? It's a huge question
going forward and this is why I think
when Marco Rubio over the weekend was
talking about how this is going to be a
process and they're going to continue
going after some of those boats making
sure that there are sanctions in place
while they work out a transition and
they want to see the country moving in a
direction that then they can maybe do
something like lifting sanctions to
Robert's point you can't just go in
right now there's a ton of sanctions
these people on OFAC list the only US
company there is Chevron and to your
point they've got burned in the past.
Exxon, Konico Phillips 2007 they left
because Hugo Chavez nationalized those
assets. You have to think is the risk
going to be worth the reward where the
oil price is trading today.
>> So far so good for Chevron. Up in a
pre-market early days of course equity
futures more broadly positive by 0.3%.
With an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief is
Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonyie.
>> Good morning John and thank you and
let's stick with Venezuela. The acting
leader of Venezuela, Deli Rodriguez,
asking the US to work with her country.
A sharp turn from her initial statement
calling for Maduro's return. President
Donald Trump saying some rebuilding will
be needed in Venezuela, [music] warning
Rodriguez that if she doesn't do what's
right, she is going to pay a very big
price.
Denmark's leader is warning President
Donald Trump to stop threatening to
annex Greenland. Meta Frederickson
writing, "The US has no right to annex
any of the three countries of the
Kingdom of Denmark." President Trump
argues the US control of Greenland is
necessary for national security and says
he'll revisit the issue in two months.
The operators of a Swiss bar where 40
people were killed on New Year's Eve are
facing a criminal investigation and
possible charges of negligent homicide.
The fire, which may have been caused by
sparklers igniting the soundproofing
[music] insulation, also left 119 people
injured. According to multiple reports,
the bar in the ski resort [music] of
Kontana is owned by a French couple.
That is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey, Vonyie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Vonyie in about 30
minutes time. Up next on the program,
the bull market entering its fourth
year.
>> The questions are, you know,
sustainability. We've had three uh good
years of d of double digit returns. you
know, can we extend that to a fourth? As
a responsible investor, you stay the
course. You know, if it ain't broke,
don't fix it. Uh, but you need to know
where some of the pitfalls are. Up next,
we'll catch up with Lori Cavversina of
RBC Capital Markets, live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Three-ear winning streak for the S&P
500. Another year of double digit gains.
So far this morning, equity futures on
the S&P shaping up as follows. Higher by
0.3% [music] on the S&P 500. On the
NASDAQ 100 up by 0.67
and the Sylvanas this morning, the bull
[music] market entering its fourth year.
>> The questions are, you know,
sustainability. We've had three uh good
years of d of double digit returns. You
know, can we extend that to a fourth? As
a responsible investor, you stay the
course. You know, if it ain't broke,
don't fix it. Uh but you need to know
where some of the pitfalls are. Look at
them in advance and identify the
insurance plays. All of these aspects
are important, but look at it on an
individual market basis, you know,
rather than uh you think that there's
one insurance play that can defend
against um everything. I don't think
that works anymore.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Stocks rising to start the first full
trading week of the new year. Lori
Cavino of RBC Capital expecting the S&P
to continue rallying with a 12-month
price target of 7750.
Lori joins us now for more. Lori, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> How is 26 going to be different to 25?
>> So, look, I think we come into the new
year prepared for some volatility. We've
said that our target we think can
absorb, you know, 5 to 10% draw down.
That's garden variety. I do think some
of the themes from last year are
continuing into this year. Um, what I
really sensed in December was a strong
sense to rotate um and to seek out
value. And so there was a lot of
interest in not just talking about the
AI trade. And frankly, I wouldn't say
everybody's like come to, you know, the
moment where they hate that trade and
want to abandon it. But, you know,
there's just more interest, frankly, in
talking about what's cheap and what's
maybe the next leg of that trade. What
are other sectors that could benefit it
from down the road? So, I think in some
way things are the same, some way things
are different.
>> Can we take stock of 25? If you just
went off the headlines, you'd think it
was all multiple expansion. just how
powerful was the earning story last
year.
>> So look, I think that companies were
absolutely brilliant in terms of their
ability to manage through and I think
this is actually something that we've
seen dating back to the first trade war
back in 2018 and I feel like as a
strategist every year since then you
know I'm writing at the end of the year
companies really came through managed
the bottom line very very well. Uh we
saw that also around the SBB crisis um
which wasn't an earnings story but was
you know sort of a a managing through an
issue type story and so I think
companies prove themselves once again
this year. Um I did get a little bit
snarky towards the end of the summer
saying if there were all these cost
savings why weren't we getting them back
in 2024? Um but the reality is they did
find ways to kind of dig down deep and
and battle through some issues.
>> Earnest growth great but if you look at
what was happening with payroll world's
growth not so good. Yeah that decoupling
can that continue through this year? So,
look, I think that if you go back to the
summer, um, what we started to hear, and
I remember you and I talked about this
on the show at one point, um, that
people really moved away from 2025 and
started looking at 2026 very, very
early. And one of the things I heard in
the summer of 2025 conversations was
whatever the ripple effects are from
some of these policy developments we got
in the first half of the year, if there
are job losses, whatever, if they
happen, you know, sort of later this
year, we think we paid the price for
them in April. What I think investors
have really gotten bowled up on is a
very strong economy in 2026. And the
same, you know, sort of conversations I
was hearing over the summer, I was
hearing a lot about that in December as
well. I know just a lot of building
excitement on the economy. So, if for
whatever reason we were to see pressures
on the labor market, you know, really
kind of extend deep into this year, I
think that is the kind of thing that
could generate some volatility.
>> When it comes to policy, foreign policy
front and focus this morning after what
happened over the weekend in Venezuela.
Do you have a different view on energy
companies this year? Now,
>> so you know, it's funny. Energy is one
that as a strategist, it's a very fairly
tiny part of the S&P 500. I find a lot
of my clients on the institutional side
are market weight by default. Um, we
have a market weight view. We have sort
of separated out our market weight
sectors into those that look better with
good valuations and those that look more
expensive, which were sort of on the
first lines of the AI trade. I put
energy in that category of ones that has
better valuations. So, it's kind of the
upper tier of our market weight sectors.
Um, I did not find a lot of interest in
talking about that sector in December. I
would say particularly in Europe, maybe
a little bit more in the States. What's
interesting to me on December 22nd, we
did our year- ahead sector outlook and
we saw very cheap valuations in that
sector. Earnings revisions have actually
started to improve already driven by the
oil and gas names. Um, and the flows
have actually turned around for that
sector and looking pretty decent as
well. So, I'm going to be curious as I
get back out on the road this week to
see if the tone has changed. You also
have an upgrade to communication
services and healthcare. Why those
three?
>> So, it goes back to kind of looking
through the sectors with cheap
valuations and trying to find where the
best opportunities are. So, the four
overweights, two of the legacy ones are
materials and financials, which we think
still give you pretty reasonable
valuations. Um, communication services
is among kind of the three big growth
sectors, comm services, uh, consumer
discretionary and tech. The one that has
a clear valuation story. Um, earnings
revisions have also been improving in
that space. And we do think growth
investors, there's only so much value
they're going to buy. So you kind of
have to find certain things within their
wheelhouse. Um, you know, if you look at
the health care sector, this is one that
has been discussed at length for the
last few months. We watched it for a
while. We sort of flagged it as
interesting back in October on a
tactical basis. Um, but we found that
the curiosity about this sector really
just persisted in December and we had a
cl conversations with a number of
clients indicating that people are just
not positioned there yet. um similar to
what we're seeing on energy, you've got
good earnings revision trends, good
valuations, and what I would say about
healthcare is it's pretty broad-based at
the industry level. So, you have a lot
of different choices.
>> Can we finish on discretionary? It came
up there. What's going to turn this
story around?
>> So, for me, I will tell you the
valuations just don't look cheap and
some of the more, you know, sort of
tariff impacted sectors don't look cheap
on our industry valuation work. So, you
know, we have not been fans of that
sector. our analysts are cool on it when
we look at our analyst survey work.
That's another component of our process.
Um I'd like to see my analysts get more
constructive. Um I'd like to see those
valuations improve and I just haven't
been seeing that.
>> Lori, the first of many appearances
later this year, I'm sure. Lori Cavscina
there of RBC looking ahead
[clears throat] to a year a year full of
event risk and it starts later on this
Friday when we get the payrolls report.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely. The payrolls
report is going to be huge because
everyone has been wondering what
potentially is going to be a clean read
when it comes to US government data
because of the more than 40-day
government shutdown. Well, January, we
finally get a clear read on what is
going on in terms of [music] the labor
market.
>> It's amazing how irrelevant that
slowdown in payrolls growth actually was
for this headline equity market.
Likewise, the tariffs from [music] April
of last year didn't seem to shake this
market up at all going into year end.
Futures this morning up by 0.3%. [music]
Up next, we'll catch up with Jati
Paradawaj of TD Securities warning
[music] the US dollar could crash by
midyear. That's next. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[music]
Three-ear winning streak on the S&P 500.
Looking for year four. Double digit
gains [music] on the S&P on the NASDAQ
100 this morning. We add just a little
bit of weight to that. Equity futures up
by 0.3% on the S&P on the NASDAQ up by
0.65. In the bond market, what a move we
saw in the bond market. Remember, sell
America. Remember all that talk back in
April of last year? Showed up in the FX
market, not in the bond market. Two-year
bond yields adjusting to lower rates at
the Federal Reserve. 10-year [music]
bond yields dropping 40 basis points in
2025. Yields a little bit elevated at
the long end of the curve this morning,
down by two [music] basis points, 48518.
If you're tuning in to check out where
the commodity market is, oil pretty much
unchanged off the back of some stunning
moves over the weekend. WTI 5748, Brent
Crude 6084. [music]
This is one of those stories where it's
going to take time to show up in the old
curve. It's going to take time to see
how easy it is to scale up production in
a place like Venezuela. And you're
[music] not really seeing a move in
crude prices because we are going into
2026 or in 2026 with the IIA saying
we're having almost a four million
barrel a day glut right now and you saw
prices depressed last year, US crude
prices down some 20%. I think if we were
at say $100 a barrel potentially the
move would have been bigger and to your
[music] point it is a very long road
given the fact that there are still
sanctions in Venezuela and it has been
decades of mismanagement in Venezuela
for these oil companies to potentially
want to go in. It's [music] going to be
billions of dollars is the risk versus
the reward where oil prices are trading
today. The worst year since 2020 on WTI
through last year this morning 5746
[music]
with three hours until the open and bow.
Let's get you some single names. Some
morning movers. Here's Danny Burgerer
with more. Morning Danny.
>> Good morning John. Oil might not be
reacting but equities are specifically
Chevron. Look at this move up more than
7 and 12%. Chevron largely seen as one
of the biggest beneficiary if not the
beneficiary if indeed the US takes
control of Venezuela's oil production.
Chevron's the only US company that's
currently in there. so would have the
resources to really go in and help
rebuild. Although company management at
least previously has been more vocally
focused on other regions besides
Venezuela. It's not just Chevron that's
moving. It's also companies like Exxon,
Konico Phillips. Those two are also seen
to see have the size and the experience
in the country to help rebuild the oil
patch there. They were in the country
previously. They left in the 2000s when
Hugo Chavez nationalized the Venezuelan
oil production. Also, Hallebert and some
of those energy supplier companies also
moving to the upside this morning.
That's up nearly 10%. Finally ending on
a different note this morning. A little
bit of deal news. Bloomberg sources
telling us that Apollo and a group of
other investors might invest more than
$1 billion in QXO. The announcement
could come as soon as today. It's a
distribution company led by billionaire
Brad Jacobs. This would allow them to be
more aggressive with acquisitions,
though. Shares up 9% in the pre-market.
John,
>> very cool. Danny, thank you. Thanks for
the update. hoping to catch up with Jim
Sa of Apollo a little bit later this
week. On our radar this morning,
Venezuela's acting leader Dari Rodriguez
calling for a cooperation agenda with
the US President Donald Trump, warning
Rodriguez, quote, "If she doesn't do
what's right, she's going to pay a very
big price." Elsewhere, Madura and his
wife said to face a US judge this
afternoon. Prosecutors alleging the pair
illegally enrich themselves as they
conspired to flood the United States
with cocaine. The charges could keep
Maduro behind bars for the rest of his
life. And finally, the president
suggesting the US could take action
against other countries. The president
vaming to dismantle the Colombian drug
trade and offering to deploy US troops
to clean up Mexico. Trump also renewing
his desire to take control of Greenland.
>> I think given the events of this
weekend, anytime now the president of
United States really does come out with
a threat, you need to take it seriously.
And I think the international community
knew that in June when he went after the
Iranian nuclear facilities. There have
been strikes in this second term in
Syria, Iraq, Iran, Somalia. Now the
president is talking about Colombia. He
says Cub Cuba is just going to basically
maybe fall on its own. And then he said
of course we need Greenland in an
interview with the Atlantic over the
weekend. So potentially everyone is
questioning is this a harbinger for more
muscular aggressive foreign policy in
Trump in 2026? We talked about it at the
top of the ad just how transparent
they've been about this about how
refreshingly transparent they've been
about this. Typically governments who
have done similar things have dressed it
up in different kind of language. They
put this in the national security
strategy back in November of last year.
The United States will reassert and
enforce the Monroe Doctrine to restore
American preeminence in the Western
Hemisphere. It went on to say in that
paragraph, we will deny non-hemispheric
competitors the ability to own or
control strategically vital assets in
our hemisphere.
>> Calling it the Trump corollary.
Basically, they're saying this is a
common sense and potent restoration of
American power priorities and consistent
with American security interests. Aka,
we need natural resources. And they have
been honest that they are over years of
Russia, Iran,
uh, China at their doorstep and they
want to push that back. They view the
Western Hemisphere that the United
States needs to take a more aggressive
role.
>> What could this mean for the broader FX
market? Let's turn to the US dollar. The
greenback risking or rising to a
two-week high after posting its steepest
annual decline since 2017. Jati Balawaj
of TD securities writing, "We have an
offconensus call for another collapse in
the US dollar by the middle of 2026."
Jati joins us now for more. Jati, good
morning.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Can I just deal with that word collapse?
How would you define collapse because we
might get some push back this morning to
that word.
>> Um, I think there's you need to draw a
line between short-term moves and more
significant moves. I think when I mean a
collapse, I mean something similar to
what you saw in Q2 of last year, which
is you saw a massive move lower in the
US dollar, which came from a bunch of
things coming true. The US was no longer
growing as strongly as other countries
were. The growth differential between
the US and the rest of the world
collapsed at a time when the American
policy was injecting volatility into
global markets and questioning the use
of the dollar as a safe haven. We think
that that kind of a trend will continue
this year where people will continue to
question if the dollar is really a safe
haven or not because the list of risk
events in the US is endless. You know,
we've seen that over the weekend and
there's a list of Supreme Court
decisions still pending.
>> Can we just get into what we saw in FX?
So, we saw a close to 10% move in the
dollar index, DXY. Yeah.
>> What we didn't see was a sell off in a
broader bond market. In fact, there was
a risk back in April. Certainly had a
broader conversation around this table
about that. People would sell the
dollar, they'd sell US fixed income.
Didn't happen. Yeah.
>> What does that speak to?
>> So I think what you mentioned I in a few
minutes ago was that the sell America
theme was basically not seen in the bond
market at all but it was clearly seen in
FX markets and in precious metals. I
think one link which people miss is that
the dominance of let's say the US and
the world has not only just been through
the bond market but actually a more
closer link to FX is through the equity
markets where every foreign investor in
the world has been blindly invested into
US assets and that to unhedged. So when
people do that, they're implicitly long
the US dollar. So that's the safety
haven of the US dollar which shifted
where people at times still want to hold
US assets particularly because of AI but
they no longer would want to hold it
unhedged which means that you know if if
I were to just put this into numbers
foreign investors hold 33 trillion in US
assets. Even if I were to assume a
marginal increase in their hedge ratio
of three, let's say 10%. That's three
trillion of dollars selling that's
potentially, you know, that happened in
markets and a lot of it is still left to
come this year.
>> We've seen US policy take this approach
though 36 years ago to the day. This
happened basically in Panama with their
leader. What makes this different right
now?
I think this is clearly a very different
shift from the kind of let's say the
democratic regime or the last decade of
you know policy makers we've seen in
markets because this is a very head-on
approach to global dominance not just an
AI natural resources global stockpiling
of those and also you know curtailing
threats to let's say the bigger pieces
of Russia and China this is a very
active injecting of the US in foreign
policy everywhere and you know they're
not being discreet about it as you
mentioned like they were very explicit
about about it in November last year. So
while all of that's great, you know,
that can potentially shore up US
interests. You know, the US will rem
remain the superdriver of the next
productivity cycle in the world. I think
that's great. The dollar will likely
remain overvalued in the long term. But
unfortunately, I don't think that
prevents the dollar's collapse in the
short term. That's not going to prevent
the Fed from cutting interest rates.
That's not going to prevent the labor
market from weakening. Your payroll
reports this week is not going to move
from any of this. Long-term, yes, but
this year, I don't think it's going to
improve. How much is your calls
predicated on the fact that we have seen
a massive run in precious metals most
notably in gold?
>> I think that's also like the
doltoriization the loss of the dollar as
a safety asset and a safe haven which
has also played into gold markets which
is why gold keeps shooting higher. Uh
you know even our commodity analysts
forecast gold to you know easily touch
4400 and keep shooting higher because
that you know safety asset of the dollar
will continue to you know die down. We
still have so many Supreme Court
decisions spending on if the Fed will
even remain independent. If AIP will
remain legal or not and with the
continued waves with it with which you
the US is now dominating global
uncertainty. Think of all of the global
shocks we saw in the last 5 years. The
US was this nirvana you know safety
haven which was shielded from COVID
supply chain crisis Russia Ukraine but
now it's the opposite. The US is now the
emanating source of global uncertainty
into the world which is what's playing
out in the
>> I just want to unpack two things that
you mentioned. One was precious metals
and the other was Russia Ukraine.
PostRussia Ukraine there was this big
push from some questionable countries to
diversify their central bank reserves.
Have we seen the bulk of that move or do
you think there's more to come?
So that bulk of that move actually I
think you rightly mentioned has been
happening happening since Russia Ukraine
where a lot of the emerging central
banks China notably has ramped up their
holdings of reserves into the gold that
has actually died down and the move that
you saw in gold after that has been more
speculative more leverage funds getting
into that move. uh so that is still
happening but at a reduced pace that it
was happening at Russia Ukraine which is
why we think that the move in gold is
now not purely linked to that but a lot
of the retail speculative and other
market participants joining into that
move because of the perception of the US
ever since we've had a new person in
power
>> just to finish on the year ahead what
kind of regime are we in now so you
talked about growth differentials
closing through last year which drove
the bulk of this move at least in your
opinion what kind of regime is this for
>> I think 2026 is going to be a year of
divergence because in the US we're still
talking about the Fed potentially easing
interest rates from here. We think that
this year they will cut at least three
more times which is something which is
the markets are not pricing. Whereas
other central banks ECB, RBA, BOC, we'll
start talking about hikes. Now uh that
those are countries where the monetary
easing has already happened. In fact,
that will now play into cushion those
economies and uplift their economic
outcomes. Whereas in the US, we'll still
be dealing with slowdown, moderation,
uncertainty and Fed easing. So I think
this will be a year of divergence.
Dollar index this morning positive by
about 0.2%. Jaty, good to see you.
Thanks for dropping by. Jaty Badawatch
there of TD securities on the US dollar
for the year ahead. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide this
morning. Let's cross over to Vonnie
Quinn to get your bloom brief. Hey
Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Ukraine President
Vladimir Zalinsky says US negotiators
will join European leaders in Paris
tomorrow to discuss post-war security
guarantees for his country. [music]
The talks will be held with hopes of
setting up a meeting in the US by the
end of January. The White House hasn't
commented on US participation in the
talks.
OPEC plus sticking with plans to halt
supply increases in the first quarter.
This as members await clarity on how
Venezuelan President Maduro's capture
impact supplies while facing [music] a
so a surplus. The next OPEC plus meeting
is set for February 1st.
US airlines are restarting their
Caribbean operations after the US strike
on Venezuela which triggered airspace
closures across the region. [music]
Vacation hotspots such as Barbados,
Aruba, and Puerto Rico saw hundreds of
flights canled, stranding thousands of
passengers. [music] The airlines say
it'll take a few days to fully stabilize
their networks. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John, [music]
>> getting stranded in Simbas doesn't sound
too bad, does it, Vonnie? you know, to
start the new year
>> and individuals were having stranded
parties, extending the partying um in
all these places and I knew a couple
people that were stuck in the Caribbean.
[music]
>> There you go. Some very small violins
this morning at least. Up next on the
program, new year, new [music] Fed
chair.
>> I know within three or four people who
going to pick.
>> I know who I'm going to pick.
>> Kevin Hass
believes in lower interest rates by a
lot.
>> I'll announce him at the right time.
There's plenty of time. Up next, we'll
catch up with Chris Naka of Everco, live
from New York City. You're [music]
watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
Kicking off the first full [music]
trading week of 2026 with futures higher
by a third of 1% on the S&P 500. On the
NASDAQ up by 3/4ers of 1% on the S&P the
average forecast on the street the
average guesstimate 755 the high is
8100. John Stalus over at Oenheimimer
the low 7K just a little north of where
we are at the moment. Steve's [music]
Barry Bannister looking for 7,000 on the
S&P one of the most accurate forecasters
for the S&P 500 last year. Chris Harvey.
[music]
Chris Harvey put in about 7K for last
year at the very start of 25 and came
very [music] close to that number. We'll
catch up with Chris in a few hours time.
If you're just catching up with us and
you're looking for some price action,
you're probably starting in the
commodity market. You're not seeing big
moves this morning in crude on WTI or in
Brent. WTI crude 5773 up by about 7/10
of 1%. Where you are seeing a bigger
move is at the single name level in the
energy sector. Chevron up by 7.5%.
That company in focus this morning.
>> They have a special license. They're the
only US major oil producer still [music]
in Venezuela. They account for 25% of
the nation's output. Chevron and its CEO
Mike Worth are the individuals to watch
in terms [music] of how potentially you
could see an expansion of US interest in
Venezuela. I spoke to [music] Mike Worth
in November. He said this, we play a
long game.
>> 16753
in the pre-market. [music] More on that
company later on this morning. under
surveillance this morning. New year, new
Fed share.
>> I know within three or four people who
all gonna pick. I am looking at Kevin
also. Secretary Scott Besson. We're
thinking about him for the Fed, but he
wants no part of it. I know who I'm
going to pick. WHO
>> TELL KEVIN HASS?
>> I'm not telling you.
>> I guess a potential Fed chair is here
too. I don't know who he's allowed to
say that potential.
He's a respected person that I can tell
you. Thank you, Kevin.
>> We're going to be looking at a couple of
different people, but I have a a pretty
good idea who I want. Someone who
believes in lower interest rates by a
lot. I'll announce him at the right
time. There's plenty of time.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Investors awaiting President Donald
Trump's pick to lead the Federal
Reserve. The president saying he would
announce the next chair sometime this
month. Joining us now is Christian Ga of
EverCore ISI. Christian, we can get to
consequences and your thoughts, your
base case, baseline views for 26, but
have you got a best case guess at the
moment over who's going to be the next
Fed chair?
>> Look, I don't have an inside track on
the mind of President Trump. It does
seem from the reporting that the two
Kevins, Hasset and Walsh, are in pole
position. for a long while as you know
the focus was very much on Kevin Hasset
but some recent new music around Walsh
put him back up in the betting odds that
seems reasonable to me I guess Hasset
still perhaps a bit more likely than
Walsh but those two I think uh the
leading the pack at this moment
>> Christian you heard the language of the
president in his own words someone who
believes in lower interest rates by a
lot what do you think the outcome of all
of this is going to be for the rest of
the committee do you think this could
lead to a new noisy doubish core but a
less effective doubbish core.
>> I think the right way to think about it
is that monetary policy in the US this
year from June onwards when the new
chair comes in is going to be a
multi-round negotiated compromise
between the new chair and his allies and
the old committee that he inherits from
power. The old committee gave us its
opening bid in the December SCP median
of just one cut in 2026. Although
actually a large group seeing two cuts,
possibly more. I think when you look at
what the new chair is going to come in
thinking and saying he's going to be
pitching somewhere between three and
five cuts. So where is it going to
trade? The answer is it's going to trade
somewhere in between. Uh we think three
cuts this year is the best guess right
now. Do you think that's enough to
anchor inflation expectations Krishna?
>> So I think that we're looking at a world
where the POW Fed if Pal continued in
office would probably be cutting two
times this year. I think under the new
chair we'll probably get three. Now the
question is do you think that Fed
credibility or independence turns on the
difference between two or three cuts? I
don't personally. I have a view of the
economy where I think productivity is
going to be good. I think unit labor
costs, wages minus productivity are
going to be soft, expectations well
behaved, shelter inflation well behaved.
So I think that three cuts is something
that the bond market would be okay to go
along with even though it's expecting
more like two right now. And I think the
equity market would love it. But you're
absolutely right that if the new chair
overd does it looks like the reaction
function is lurching for political
reasons not because of good productivity
or softer uh you know unit labor costs
then you run a real risk uh that the
bond market at some point could throw a
riot.
>> Well Krishna to that point in early
December the financial times had a story
about bond investors warning the
Treasury Department about picking Kevin
Hasset. Do you think we can actually see
the bond market push back at a Hasset
Fed chair?
>> So, first of all, I I do take some of
those reports seriously, but with a
pinch of salt in the sense that I think
there's quite a lot of evidence that
there's lobbying going on around the
different candidates and folks in
financial markets and elsewhere who have
a preferred candidate, you know, trying
to sort of lean in on that before the
decision is finally locked. That's
something you might see with a number of
different senior appointments. I think
it is true that there is probably a bit
more unease in markets around Hasset as
a less well-known quantity than Worsh of
course we know as a former uh Fed
governor. So certainly, you know,
depending on who the pick is and in
particular how that person comes out the
gates, what they say, do they strike the
right notes on being technocratic, on
being independent, on preserving Fed
credibility, on recognizing that it's
fed credibility that helps keep
longerterm interest rates low for the
benefit of the economy and also for the
benefit of the president. Do they come
out the gates in the right way? If not,
certainly the bond market could start to
push back a bit. But my view is that we
are unlikely to see a full-blown bond
market riot uh preemptively out of
speculation as to what might happen. I
think that would require some kind of
clear coordinating proof point that the
Fed was indeed uh losing its
independence and technocratic character.
I think absent that the bond market will
be wary um but will not want to trade in
a big way. Krishna, who was your
darkhorse candidate?
>> Well, I've always wondered whether at
some juncture, Secretary Besson couldn't
be uh persuaded by President Trump to
uh, you know, to take this gig. We've
heard, as your clip, you know, reminded
us President Trump on more than one
occasion suggests that he actually
thinks the best guy for the job would be
Scott. Now, Scott seems to have
indicated very clearly he doesn't want
the job. And obviously, he's got a lot
on his plate as Treasury Secretary,
which actually right now is in many ways
a more consequential position than the
position of Fed chair. So, I'm assuming
that Scott sticks to his position that
he doesn't want the job. But were he to
have a lastm minute change of heart, I
still think we could end up there.
>> These are questions we should be asking
Marie Krishna. I'll do it for you. AMH,
talk to me about why this is taking so
long. I thought we'd find out in full
turn into winter. I thought it might be
the end of 25. It's rolled into 26.
What's taking so long?
>> In April, I sat down. The Treasury
Secretary said we'll have a name by the
fall. I think partially the Fed is
moving towards what Trump wants to see.
We had three interest rate cuts by the
end of the year. I think also they are
weighing their options or potentially
Trump is trying to just wear the
Treasury Secretary down where he finally
says, "Yes, I'm going to take it." I
asked Trump about best about the Fed in
November and he looked at Besset and
said, "Well, you know, I have someone I
would like, but you know, he wants to
stay at his current post."
>> We might have to wait a while for this
one. Christian, we've got to only wait a
few days to get a jobs report. So, let's
finish on that. Median estimate in our
survey is 59K. Big range. The high is
155. The low on my screen is 25,000 in
our survey at least. Kristen, what are
you expecting this coming Friday? And
are you expecting unemployment which has
now broken out through four and a half
percent to carry on going towards say
five and maybe north of that level?
>> So I'm not expecting that unemployment
is going to continue to drive higher on
a consistent basis over the first half
of this year. But obviously that's the
key question. That's the question the
Fed's going to be very focused on.
Therefore, that's really going to be the
single most important driver of whether
we get any more cuts over the next
several months. In my base case, I have
more cuts in the market over the year as
a whole, but my cuts skew later from
June onwards. And that's because my best
guess is that we're going to start to
see some signs of the labor market
stabilizing over the next several
months, which in a context where we're
getting fiscal stimulus from tax refunds
and inflation is peaking in Q1 would
allow the Fed to just to wait a little
longer, wait for that June meeting under
the new leader. in terms of the most uh
you know the most imminent data the data
for December what the Fed will be
looking for here what I'm looking for is
signs that the labor market is bouncing
back from the pothole around the
shutdown and the lagged doge layoffs in
October November providing we see
directionally things are rebounding some
I think the Fed can then kick the can to
March and see what the world looks like
there
>> Krishna appreciate the update we'll
catch you with you again soon I'm sure
Chris G there of of a core. We hope he's
right. That unemployment situation has
got to reverse for the good of this
economy. Up next on the program, Ed
Yardeni of Yadenni Research, Norman Rule
of CSIS, Bob McN [music] of Rapid and
Energy Advisers, and Jim Biano of Biano
Research from New York City. The second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
[music]
You're continuing to see actually
probably an acceleration in this
K-shaped economic behavior.
>> We have ongoing softness in the labor
market. Our own forecast, official
forecast, has the labor market looking
quite resilient in [music] 2026. I
wouldn't read into the unemployment rate
ticking up in the last most recent
print. The Fed is going to take that
increase in the [music] unemployment
rate much more seriously than bond
markets seem to be right now. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with [music]
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. Equity
futures pushing higher on the S&P 500,
higher by a third of 1% on the NASDAQ up
by 0.74. Following the stunning
developments in Venezuela over the
weekend, the price action in the energy
market looks like this. Very muted. WTI
up by 0.5%, Brent crude up by 0.4. We
weren't looking for big moves here. This
is where we were looking for a move and
we got one. Check out the majors in the
pre-market. Chevron up by close to 7%.
>> Chevron's the one to watch. They have
been in the country for 100 years. The
[music] only US oil company left in the
country. They have a special license. I
spoke to Mike Worth in November and he
says, "We play the long game and if
things change, [music] we want to
continue working in Venezuela." The
question is whether or not Exxon Mobile,
Kico Phillips decide to go back in. They
left in 2007 when [music] Hugo Chavez
nationalized their assets. Do they want
to go back in when you have WTI trading
below $60 a barrel? [music] What is the
riskreward? Wouldn't you rather
potentially maybe go to Canada for that
same sour crude or just go for more
fracking?
>> This is not a headline price story. This
is going to take decades potentially
[music]
to play out. You know, well, we all know
about the reserves in Venezuela, but
that industry has been played by
underinvestment now [music] for decades.
It takes time to scale up production.
Even to get back to something close to
north of a million barrels a day.
>> Absolutely. It has been mismanaged. You
have basic [music] operations that have
basically been put on the back burner
for decades. They don't have the fresh
[music] new equipment. and also who is
really there in terms of industry
experts besides Pedespa [music] and
Chevron. So this is going to take
decades. You have experts saying this
would mean basically [music] $10 million
a year for each oil industry uh major to
have to go in and invest to do that.
That is why you also have potentially
some people saying we understand [music]
the president has said a dozen times
talking about Venezuela it wasn't just
about drugs. He says this is also about
oil, but people are scratching their
heads saying, "Well, what's the
timeline? It's not going to be a year.
This is [music] decades out."
>> Washington, of course, will interrogate
the rationale for all of this. Foreign
diplomats will have their views as well.
Can we just talk about how impressively
clean this operation was [music] over
the weekend, something that could have
been incredibly messy, was impressively
clean.
>> There's been a number of impressive
[music]
aggressive approaches we've seen, but
impressive when it comes to the US
military. Delta force going in there.
There was not a single [music] casualty
on the American side and where Maduro
was sleeping was a government compound
and they were able [music] to extract
him and his wife and bring him back to
New York within hours. He is now sitting
[music] 10 12 miles away from where we
are right now in a Brooklyn jail. Also
very impressive from the US military
where the strikes in June on the Iranian
nuclear facility.
>> Much more still to come on this story of
course through the next 2 hours or so.
So far this morning, equity futures
still positive by 0.3%. [music] Coming
up over the next 60 minutes, we'll catch
up with Ed Yardeni of Yardeni Research
forecasting a bull market that's built
to last. We speak to the former senior
US intelligence official Norman Rule as
President Trump doubles down on claims
America will run Venezuela and Bob McN
of Rapid and Energy Group as the plan to
unlock Venezuela's oil supply begins to
unfold. We begin this hour with stocks
holding near all-time highs. Syadeni of
Yardeni Research setting a year-end S&P
target of 7700 and a decade end target
of 10K. He writes this. This bull market
could be one of the longer ones. Ed
joins us now for more. Ed, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's just start with the longevity of
this thing already several years into
it. Why do you think this can take
another leg and another lear after that?
>> Well, I I think the economy has
demonstrated its resilience over the
past few years. I mean, all the shocks
that have hit it starting with the
pandemic and then uh the uh the tariffs
mo mo most recently and yet real GDP is
at an all-time record high. And so I'm
just extrapolating that that continues
that the economy will continue to grow
through the end of the decade and that
um by the end of the decade we could
very well see the market anticipating
something like five $100 a share for the
S&P 500. Put a 20 multiple on it and you
get 10,000. certain things happened last
year that people thought would be
relevant and turned out to be
irrelevant. I'm thinking of the tariffs
of April of last year, irrelevant to the
headliners and B500 index at least. And
then later on and through the year, the
fact that unemployment carried on
climbing and it didn't seem to disrupt
this equity market. Is that going to be
the story for 26 as well?
>> Yeah, absolutely. And uh I think 2025
demonstrated that the economy could grow
even when we have a labor market that's
not growing uh much at all. And uh that
can only happen if productivity is
booming. And productivity growth during
the first half of the decade kind of
recovered. It was really quite depressed
at the beginning of the decade. It's
recovered to kind of its annual average
of about two 2%. I think we're heading
to 3% and going from 2 to 3% doesn't
seem like a lot, but it is a lot when it
comes to real GDP and keeping a lid on
inflation.
>> Ed, you know better than most what often
happens coming into the new year, people
look for the other thing. not the thing
that's been working for years, but they
look for the other thing. Is it time to
move away from tech and get to the other
thing?
>> Well, I'm I'm in that camp. I'm in the
the notion that it's time to to
rebalance them. I mean, when you've got
information technology and communication
services accounting for 45% of the
market cap of the S&P 500, maybe it's
time to rebalance a bit. And uh I I've
been recommending uh also overweighting
financials and uh industrials. And I I
would continue to overweight them and
put some money also on an overweight
basis into into healthcare. Look, I I I
think every company is basically turning
to to be a technology company. You
either make it or you use it. And so I I
I'm kind of keen on the impressive 493.
Everybody's focusing on the Magnificent
7. But I don't know about you, I'm
getting AI fatigue. I'm a little tired
of the of of the whole thesis here. And
uh I think the market's starting to show
that as well. and the 493 are looking
more interesting because they'll be the
ones that are using the technology to
increase productivity and earnings.
>> Last year there was a big overhang on
questions of how tariffs would impact
companies and thus their share price.
What do you think is going to be the big
policy question mark of this year? Well,
I think everybody's focusing on the
fiscal stimulus that's uh kind of locked
into the system uh with the one big
beautiful bill act that was passed last
July, but it was retroactive to the
beginning of last year. And so,
according to Secretary of Treasury
Bessant, uh a lot of indiv a lot of
households are going to get a an extra
1,000 to $2,000 in refunds more than
would otherwise have been the case. And
that could be very stimulative. We
already have very stimulative monetary
policy. The Fed's cut the Fed funds rate
by 175 basis points uh since 2023.
And uh so you know I I I think the the
the policies are kind of locked in and
the question is what kind of impact
they'll have on the economy. Obviously a
positive one, but the big question is
what about inflation?
>> Well, given they're locked in, do you
think consumers already preemptively
spent those checks they're about to get?
>> I don't I don't think so. I I I think
they're they're going to be pleasantly
surprised by the refunds. I mean, you
know,
claim claiming your refunds is is is not
something that's easily to predict. So,
I I do think there there's going to be a
stimulus from it.
>> Where do you think this will leave the
Federal Reserve and policy for the year
ahead? [sighs]
>> Well, um you know, we've got a lot of
known unknowns. We'll see who the next
Fed chair is, but we also know that
whoever is the Fed chair, it's only
really one vote on the FOMC. So the
Fed's going to remain data dependent and
um I I think that with the economy
likely to be quite strong at least in
the first half of the year I think the
Fed's done at least for the next six
months.
>> One man, one vote is not how we've been
thinking about the Federal Reserve over
previous leaderships and previous
administrations. Why is it changing?
>> Well, the the the previous uh Fed chairs
were consensus builders. That's that's
what they spent a lot of time doing and
there was very successful at it.
particularly Fed Chair Pal was a great
consensus builder builder, but I think
the uh the next Fed chair is going to be
much much more aligned with the
president with the White House and I
think there could be a lot I think there
could be a lot more independence among
the Fed the Fed committee.
>> Is that the unintended consequence of
this push by President?
>> Yeah, I mean everybody's been talking
about the Fed's going to be less uh less
independent. I think they'll be more
independent. I think we'll you'll see
more dissension. You mean they're going
to be more independent because it's so
obvious potentially the Fed chair is so
tethered to the president. Everyone else
will feel like they can be honest and
speak out.
>> Yeah. Well, if you got a Fed chair
that's Trump dependent and everybody
else is data dependent, I think uh
you're going to have a a difference of
opinion and it's going to be pretty
visible as it has been in the last
minutes. When you say that they only
have one vote, do you think this
administration might take a different
approach when they think about the Fed
and potentially elevate a Governor
Waller so they get an extra seat because
it is a deliberative body?
>> Well, I I think uh Waller would makes
the most sense because he's got the
experience. He's knows all the players
and uh he could be more of a consensus
builder than somebody that's just kind
of a a new new figure at the Fed. Uh but
uh yeah, I I think I think whoever is
the next Fed chair, they're going to
realize they have a consensus problem
and they have to deal with it. And so I
I think at the end of the day, the the
Fed's going to isn't going to be much
different than what it is right now.
Even if the president continues to uh
you know, demand that the Fed funds rate
be brought down to 1%. It's just not
going to happen if the economy is doing
well and if inflation's still kind of
stuck around 3% rather than down to two.
We hope the economy is doing well in the
year ahead and beyond. Edard Denni, good
to see you. Thank you, sir.
>> Thank you.
>> Ed Yard Denny, if you had Denny Research
who about six years ago talked about the
roaring 20s and I can't believe we're
already halfway through.
>> Yeah, we're halfway through the roaring
20s. I think it is important to note and
he wrote about this in his piece about
really that K shape though. It's the top
end that is really roaring in the 20s
because they have this exposure to the
equity market which was a bull market.
But if you're just living paycheck to
paycheck, which we see in a polls
talking about affordability and you're
not exposed to the stock market, it
hasn't been that great for you.
>> That's where the political tension lives
at the moment. Let's give an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross back over
to Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Nicholas Maduro and
his wife are being held at a
Metropolitan Detention Center in
Brooklyn, awaiting [music] a court
appearance this afternoon. The Justice
Department unsealing an indictment
against them, alleging they illegally
enriched themselves [music] as they
conspired to flood the United States
with cocaine.
Sax is in talks for a $1 billion
bankruptcy loan to keep the business
running as part of its Chapter 11
bankruptcy filing that could happen in a
matter of weeks. Sources telling us here
at Bloomberg, the luxury retailer
skipped an interest payment in December
and has been negotiating forbearance
with some creditors.
first buddy might be back. President
Trump praising Tesla CEO Elon Musk after
a dinner over the weekend, saying he's
quote 80% super genius and 20% he makes
mistakes. This all as Musk posted a
photo of the pair and the first lady.
And it comes after months of cooling
relations between Trump [music] and
Musk. And that is your brief. John
>> Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, [music] mixed messages.
>> Mr. Secretary, who is in charge? Are you
running Venezuela right now?
>> Yeah. I mean, I keep pe people, you
know, fixating on [music] that. Here's
the bottom line on it is we expect to
see changes in Venezuela.
>> We're in judge. We have to do one thing
in Venezuela. Bring it back.
>> How busy is Secretary Rubio right now?
How many jobs does he have?
>> I believe he has three. And potentially
there's lots of memes on [music] Twitter
that he's going to be like the governor
of Venezuela or the governor of Cuba. So
maybe his portfolio [music] is expanding
every minute. The influence of Flidian
politics on a policy of this
administration is pretty impressive,
isn't it?
>> From chief of [music] staff to Secretary
of State. Yes, very impressive.
>> You're seeing it in policy over the
weekend. Up next, we'll catch up with
the former senior US intelligence
official Norman Rule from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> I believe that fellow journalist Samro
[music] put out on X about a year ago,
get ready to work every single weekend
for the next four years. And this
weekend was no different. If you were
looking for a quiet start to 26, just
get into the rhythm of the working day.
Not happening. Futures positive by a
third of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ up
by 0.7 on the Russell so far this
morning. Positive by 0.1 Sanders this
morning. mixed messages. [music]
>> Mr. Secretary, who is in charge? Are you
running Venezuela right [music] now?
>> Yeah. I mean, I keep pe people, you
know, fixating on that. Here's the
bottom line on it is we expect [music]
to see changes in Venezuela. Changes of
all kinds, long-term, short-term. We'd
love to see all kinds of changes, but
the most immediate changes are the ones
that are in the national interest of the
United States.
>> We're in judge. We have to do one thing
in Venezuela. Bring it back.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Secretary of State Marco Rubio saying
the US won't govern Venezuela even as
President Donald Trump doubles down on
his claim that America will run the
country until there is a proper
transition of power. Your team coverage
starts right now with Bloomberg's
Mikaser in Washington. Miles Miller
outside the courthouse in lower
Manhattan. Miles, can you just frame the
moment? What's going on behind you? Just
the stunning developments over the
weekend and the very fact that Maduro is
here in New York City.
Yeah, Nicholas Maduro has just been put
into a Bearcat. He'll make his way to a
helicopter that'll take him past the
Statue of Liberty to the Wall Street
helipad and then motorcated here where
he'll face a judge at 12:00 this
afternoon. Let's talk about the stark
contrast, right? He woke up this morning
at the Metropolitan Detention Center, a
facility that has been laden with rats.
They said that there was uh really bad
conditions of the food there. Uh he was
at Mir Flores Palace uh a baroque uh
mansion in Venezuela just about 48 hours
72 hours time ago. But they are laying
out quite the case against him. They are
alleging that back in 2000 when he was a
member of the Venezuelan National
Assembly during those years he was
moving loads of cocaine under the
protection of Venezuelan law
enforcement. That's not enough. They say
between uh 2006 and about uh 10 years
after that time, he and his wife worked
together to get diplomatic passports for
drug dealers to be able to move uh
cocaine and other drugs from Mexico into
Venezuela. And these charges face the
possibility of life in prison. It's
possible that the Sinaloa cartel leader
El Chapo, a person who uh was
responsible for moving so many drugs
into the United States, may be at the
same prison where Maduro could wind up
if he's convicted.
>> We've got Mika Sera down in Washington
DC. Mika, given the events over the
weekend and what Miles just described,
take the temperature of Congress from
both Democrats and Republicans. What are
they saying now?
>> Yeah, it's really interesting to see
this uh play out on Capitol Hill. I
mean, this is clearly falling mostly on
party lines. Trump is set to brief House
Republicans in a closed door meeting
tomorrow in Washington. So, I think well
that we'll get some more reaction out of
that. But right now, a lot of
Republicans even have questions in terms
of what's coming next and who's actually
going to be in charge of Venezuela.
There's been some skepticism raised on
who's actually in charge. is the US what
is the US's role is going to be um and
how Maduro's deputy uh is going to play
a role here and if she's going to work
with the United States.
>> Mason with the latest down in Washington
DC to Mars Miller. Thank you sir to the
both of you. Thank you very much. Kind
of inevitable the reactions we got over
the weekend. I think you have to
remember successive governments across
both parties both had the same opinion
of this leader in Venezuela.
>> Oh yes, definitely. and there was a
bounty on his head under the Biden
administration. And when it comes to
this indictment, this was from 2020. A
lot of questions are going to be asked
on Capitol Hill tonight. 5:30 p.m. Hegs
Rubio, Rackcliffe, General Kaine will
all be facing lawmakers this evening.
>> Let's extend the conversation. The
former senior US intelligence official
Norman Rule writing the following. In
addition to ensuring US influence over
Venezuela's oil reserves, the
administration will seek to reduce
China's political influence over a
region. Norm joined us now for more.
Norm, welcome. We talked about how
impressively clean this operation was
over the weekend given your experience
given historic examples of similar
events. What was your reaction to what
took place?
extraordinary display of the skill of US
military and intelligence officials uh
working together for many months and
then putting an amazing array of US
military and intelligence operatives uh
together on the ground. But it also
showed the extraordinary nature of US um
uh technology. Uh the Venezuelans uh
talked about having uh air defenses that
could spot stealth uh fighters and the
United States managed to put not only
dozens of aircraft but helicopters
throughout Venezuela's skies and uh uh
Venezuela's air defense was not able to
pick it up. Now, put that in context of
uh the US military technology being used
by Israel and the United States in Iran
just a few months ago uh against u uh uh
Russian uh and Iranian technology in
Iran. And you really get a picture of
the extraordinary capacity for US
military technology, personnel, and
intelligence capability with our
partners uh worldwide. It's quite a
quite a picture for our adversaries and
partners. Iran was the big focus in
June. Obviously, Venezuela is the big
focus. Now, Norm, what country could be
next where the US has a more aggressive
foreign policy?
I think it's important to take a real
hard look at the December National
Security Strategy because the National
Security Strategy makes clear that the
United States will be inclined to be
non-interventionist but use robust
military and economic force most likely
in the Western Hemisphere and then
otherwise use economic and military
tools only when needed uh uh outside of
that environment for limited purposes uh
non not not state building not uh to put
new governments in place and I think
that template has been consistent for
the administration uh throughout the
previous year and I think in 2026 as
well. So I think the western hemisphere
is likely to remain the administration's
focus but the Iranians have been put on
notice. uh there has been some
additional social media activity by the
administration and uh uh but if activity
military activity were undertaken by the
administration it would likely be
limited. This is not an administration
looking to involve the US in a
conventional conflict.
>> When it comes to Venezuela and now the
acting president of Deli Rodriguez,
given the fact that she was the number
two, her brother runs the National
Assembly. She was by the Panameanian
leader said this is Madorism without
Maduro. Is this regime containment
instead of change?
>> Well, I think you've got a couple of
different issues here. The US posture
again is being clarified as interest
driven statecraftraft. We're interested
in stopping drugs, migration, adversary
exclusion from oil. Uh democracy
restoration is being positioned as a a
downstream objective. Now let's put this
in the context as the Venezuelans.
They've just seen an extraordinary
display of US power. They cannot compete
with this. They have no allies of any
consequence. Uh so they're going to try
to do several things. First, they need
to buy time. They need to sustain
internal cohesion. They need to
delegitimize any potential successor.
And they need to then think about how do
they manage this environment while
Congress, the rest of the world uh uh uh
uh puts themselves together against the
Trump administration and then seek out
maybe overtures for negotiated
coexistence with the Trump
administration, if only to prevent
follow-on strikes and to maximize their
influence in any possible uh ongoing
transition. Norman, we're tracking live
pictures of the former Venezuelan leader
heading to a court here in New York
City, which is stunning in and of
itself. In an ideal world, Norm, this is
what people would like to see. They
would have liked to have seen this guy
step down a long time ago. And then the
Nobel Prize winner walks into Caracus
the following day to streets celebrating
her arrival and she takes over and
democracy reigns. Norm, that's not the
real world. Could you share with us the
cold hard reality of the real world and
how difficult it will be to engage the
resistance that hasn't yet shown itself
yet in Venezuela but could manifest
materialize in the months to come?
Well, to be clear, I'm not a Venezuelan
in domestic political expert, but for
the Venezuelan opposition to take
charge, they're going to have to
overcome uh the uh the architecture of
the military, the security forces, the
Cuban security forces who are ingrained
within the architecture of the
Venezuelan government, the entire
political system of Venezuela, which
will be among the first to be put on
trial. I mean, the the Venezuelan
interior minister and the acting the pre
the new president will be among the
first to be put on trial for corruption
and human rights. So, they're going to
need a safe haven, a amnesty. This is an
awful lot to ask for. So, the president
was not uh out of his lane to say that
it's going to be a tough road to hoe for
the uh uh incoming president to uh to
just to just step in. And I think for
this reason, the Secretary
[clears throat] of State was also
accurate to describe this as a as a as a
process. But in any case, this is this
is a a situation in motion.
>> Norman Ro, thank you, sir. We appreciate
it. The former senior US intelligence
official, just to build on that, it's
not just an event framed as one over the
weekend, but it's the start of a much
longer, potentially messier process.
>> Yeah, it's a situation in motion. And I
love what Norm said there because it is
this is a transformational moment, but
it's going to take a very long time to
get to the outcome that many people
ultimately would want to see. But
already over the weekend after Trump was
saying, "Oh, we've spoken to Deli
Rodriguez." She she denounced the raid,
called it barbaric, and at the same time
last night, she says, "We're extending
this invitation to the US government to
work together on a cooperation agenda."
She is seeing the signs on the wall that
is up to her for her to be successful in
this new world order via the Trump
administration [music]
that she does give a little bit of an
olive branch. We got to go to a
commercial break in just a second, but
let's just take a beat. Things you
didn't expect to see on the first Monday
of 2026. The former Venezuelan leader in
a chopper heading towards a court in New
York [music] City. Stunning pictures
here in Manhattan. From New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[music]
Equity futures up again this morning
after snapping a 4-day slide in Friday's
session. We're up by a third of 1% on
the S&P, up by 0.7 on the NASDAQ 100, up
by about a tenth of 1% on the Russell.
Following a really, really decent year
of [music] gains for the Treasury
market. yields down to the front end and
the long end on 10s as well. Down about
40 basis points through last year on a
10-year maturity. We're down another two
this morning to 41691. [music]
I'm sure you want to take the
temperature of the energy market. So,
let's do that together. WTI and Brent
looks like this in early trading up by
0.5% on WTI to 5763. [music]
Brent crude Amory up by 0.4 to about
$61. Well,
>> it's not going to really be a massive
move for two reasons. One, what is
happening right now in market dynamics?
[music] do have a glut for this year as
well as you had WTI down 20% last year.
The [music] US is going close to 14
million barrels a day. We are massive
producer. The second hand if you want to
see really an impactful move [music] in
the oil market because of Venezuela. It
is going to take not even months, years
and decades [music] given this
mismanagement that has been in the
company. You have companies that haven't
been in there since 2007. [music]
The only US company left is Chevron and
this morning they are on a tear.
>> Well, let's talk about Chevron right
now. Let's cross over to Danny Burgerer
with your morning movers. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, Amory [music] is completely right.
The move in Chevron has been the stand
up for the market, John. Shares are up
6.4% in the pre-market. Some of the
other oil players which Amory was
hinting at also doing well in today's
trade. Exxon, Kico Phillips, two
companies that had been in V Venezuela
until the mid 2000s when the company's
oil patch was nationalized. Those
[music] shares up 3% for Exxon and for
Kico Phillips up more than 5%. Elsewhere
this morning, TSMC rallying the ADRs in
the US after Goldman Sachs upgraded
their 12-month forecast. Shares up 2 and
a.5%. They see better earnings. They
should rise between 9 and 15% over the
next 12 months. They say that their
leadership is cemented in AI and that
will help lead them into 2026 and 2027.
[music]
Finally, rounding off with deal news. I
mentioned this in the last hour from
Bloomberg reporting that Apollo and
another group of investors would make an
investment in QXO of over a billion
dollars. That deal [music] has become
official. An announcement coming out
just moments ago. Shares up 4.7%. This
is uh the production company or rather
[music] producing company uh led by
billionaire Brad Jacobs. John,
>> very cool, Danny. Thank you. Their stock
is higher by close to 5% [music] in a
pre-market and early trading. On our
radar this morning, President Donald
Trump warning of a second wave of
strikes on Venezuela following the
capture of Nicholas Maduro. The
president saying the country's acting
leader Darassi Rodriguez could pay a
quote very big price if she doesn't do
what's right. Elsewhere, Iran Supreme
Leader vowing to crack down on riers as
deadly protests continue. Ayatala Alimei
accusing external forces of inciting the
unrest. The collapse of Iran's currency
sparking a widespread protest. And
finally, OPEC plus planning to pull
supply increases in the first quarter as
global markets face a surplus. The group
looking for clarity on whether the US
capture of Venezuelan leader Maduro will
impact supply.
>> So, of course, OPEC is going to be
monitoring the situation. We do need to
remember that Venezuela only accounts
for 800,000 barrels a day. This is very
different than the height we've had in
the past decades when it comes to
Venezuela, almost pushing 4 million
barrels a day. And that is the potential
now this opens up. What's interesting of
course for Venezuela is their oil
minister is Deli Rodriguez who was the
former vice president who is now the
acting president and she was actually at
the OPEC seminar in July. So she does
know a lot about this industry and she
has all of the connections around the
world especially in places like Russia.
>> So before we start making jokes about
secretary Rubio turning up in Vienna for
OPEC meetings [laughter]
just how much influence will the US have
over what happens with that cartel going
forward? So the United States has always
had influence or you would say maybe a
seat at the table when it comes to OPEC.
But now the president of United States
is outwardly saying we are running that
country. Deli Rodriguez had a way more
friendly tone towards the end of the
weekend than she did earlier in the
week. You can imagine that they are
going to have a lot more say not just
when it comes to Venezuela but also the
fact that the United States has had a
very strong relationship with Saudi
Arabia which is really the individual
the country that runs this cartel.
>> Let's stick with the energy market. The
US of course ready to use the commodity
for leverage in Venezuela.
>> There's a quarantine right now in which
sanctioned oil shipments there's a boat
and that boat is under US sanctions. as
we go get a court order, we will seize
it. That remains in place. And that's a
tremendous amount of leverage that will
continue to be in place until we see
changes that not just further the
national interest of the United States,
which is number one, but also that lead
to a better future for the people of
Venezuela.
>> Bob McDall, the founder and president of
Rapidan Energy Group, joins us now for
more. Bob, as you and I start this
conversation, we're tracking live
pictures of the former Venezuelan leader
making his way to court here in New
York. This is an individual who oversaw
the biggest energy reserves on the
planet and this was a sector an industry
in that country plagued by
underinvestment. Can you frame for us
Bob how long it would take to really
scale up production in that country. Now
that individual is out of the country.
>> Hi Jonathan. Sure. It's a matter of many
years to decades and tens of billions of
dollars. The good news is especially US
companies they know how to do it. They
have the engineering, logistical,
technical expertise, but it's going to
take boatloads of money and we won't be
seeing real oil until after the end of
the second Trump term. We just need to
be realistic about that.
>> But Bob, is the will there given the
fact that these are companies that had
to flee Venezuela in 2007?
>> Absolutely. You know, they're
tantalized, but they are cautiously
tantalized. I was in the White House 23
years ago after we were uh chased out by
Hugo Chavez. No fun at all. Uh and they
will be very cautious in going back in.
But it also gets to this transition.
Will what kind of government are we
going to have there? What kind of
contract terms? What kind of physical
security? I there are there's a wide and
deep set of big questions that these oil
companies and their boards are going to
consider before they they rush in. I
think it's right that they're up in in
equity pricing. It's the market's got
this right. It's a nothing burger for
short-term crude futures. It's a it's
another tailwind for US oil companies
majors coming after this sort of walk
back from this peak demand narrative. If
you think about it, US oil majors have
just had a great extended holiday
season. Peak demand is fading in 2030.
That's good for them. And now the
world's largest oil reserves may be
available to them when it really counts
after 2030.
>> Well, you also got it right. I actually
thought of you in the morning after this
all took place cuz before the Christmas
holidays you said there was a 70% chance
that Madura would be out. Did you think
it was going to happen this quickly?
>> Yes. Uh we did. I you know I think the
market has gotten you mentioned June in
the Iran war. The market doesn't
understand Trump. Uh it did was
surprised when he attacked Iran. It was
surprised when he put sanctions on
Rosnet and Luke oil in October and it
was surprised when he attacked when he
removed Maduro. I think what the market
doesn't understand is the president's
willingness to take risk when it comes
to confronting adversaries on top tier
foreign policy challenges even if energy
is at stake. And the reason why Emry and
you just mentioned it the president the
White House believes and I happen to
agree we're heading into over supply. he
can lean into this softening crude
market and take risk even with Iran and
Russia which are really more important
near-term than Venezuela.
>> So what are you telling clients is the
next potential risktaking this
administration is going to go for
>> Iran and Russia are up next. Look what
the president's talking about. Uh Israel
is not kidding about uh preventing Iran
from reconstituting its mil its whip its
missile and nuclear programs and with
the unrest we're seeing there maybe
stirring the pot. So the president's
been talking very forcefully. Look what
he said with Prime Minister Netanyahu
willingness to intervene if the regime
shoots protesters. I think when the
market sort of lifts its gaze from this
fascination with Venezuela and realizes
not a really a real issue in the short
term, it's going to say, "Wait a minute.
How credible is President Trump when it
comes to Russia and Iran with Russia?
Putin's not going to agree to
armistice." And while President Trump
often has a friendly demeanor towards
Putin, says nice things, uh, he also
tightened sanctions and I think he's
willing to do so even more into next
year. So, let's look to Iran and Russia
for real potential supply disruptions,
not Venezuela.
>> When you say they're up next, Bob, can
you just give us detail on what you mean
by that? Because up next, after what we
saw over the weekend, a very different
scenario for Iran and for Russia. What
do you mean by they're up next? Well, I
think uh if Iran doesn't agree to halt
its missile capabilities, its
reconstitution, its nuclear
capabilities, and if we even see this
continued unrest, I think there will be,
and we told clients, uh 70% probability
of another wave of at least Israeli
strikes on Iran, perhaps supported or
joined by the United States. We're at a
solid 70% on that. Also, sanctions,
tighter sanctions. We've let Iran off.
Trump could go to China and say, "Cut it
out. we're serious. Do business with
Iran or do business with the United
States. So really cutting into their oil
exports at least and military action at
best. 70% probability in the coming,
let's say, months. Putin, Russia, same
thing. Uh so far they've just wanted to
widen the euro's discount to Brent. They
just wanted to uh you know hurt Putin's
revenue, not cut into production. If oil
prices keep falling, it's a big
condition. If oil prices keep softening,
I think he'll be willing to be tougher
on India, China, and other customers of
Russians, Russia's crude.
>> Bob, how consistent is that with the
national security strategy that they put
out at the end of last year?
>> You know, it is consistent, but it's
subtle. You got to read into it. Trump
didn't say, "Look, we're going back to
the Western Hemisphere, and we're all
about not only the Monroe Doctrine, but
the Trump correlate, which means we
won't even let our adversaries have
economic stakes in our region." That's
what the focus was. But he didn't say
we're completely pulling up stakes in
Europe, the Middle East, and Asia.
Didn't say that. Not acting that way. We
don't think China has a free hand in
Taiwan. We don't think Putin has a free
hand in Putin uh in Ukraine. And in the
Middle East, we're going nowhere. So,
we're kind of having it both ways. I
think we're having our internationalism,
our global alliances and the Eurasian
land mass on the one hand, but telling
the world, yeah, we're really going to
be busy in Western in the Western
Hemisphere.
>> And Marie, that was certainly part of
the conversation over the weekend. Does
this speak to the idea that maybe
they're going to refocus everything on
the so-called Western Hemisphere,
ultimately Latin America, and take their
after ball in places like the Middle
East and Europe?
>> Well, what one thing is for sure is that
they definitely are monitoring the price
of oil. And to Bob's point, does that
give them a lot more leverage around the
world? Ole Derapasca actually came out
with a telegram over the weekend and was
talking about how if the US is able to
hold prices near $50 a barrel, that puts
serious pressure on Russia's state
capitalist economic model. So already
this is going to put pressure on all
these other countries even if the
administration decides they're just
focusing on the Western Hemisphere.
>> Bob, just before you go, I wanted to
carve out some time and talk about a
much longer term issue, the lifespan of
shale. How are you considering the
lifespan of shale with the developments
that we saw took place over the weekend?
>> Well, we think shale is going to be
around forever and there are other
deposits around the world. Look at what
Argentina is doing. uh if the other
shale deposits open up, we could see new
strongly emerging shale plays. In the
US, we think it's a mature sector. Uh we
don't see a lot of net growth. Um but
you know what? Look at AI, look at
technology gains. Real big mistake to
bet against especially US engineers, US
oil geologists, etc. And I can see us
getting those recoverable reserves up
from 10%. We get that up five 10% more.
I think we could see surprises in our
ability to produce oil. But look, it's
high cost. It's vulnerable to uh supply
uh price swings. Uh it's going to be
challenging. It's mature for the time
being. So shale is sort of in a plateau
uh for the time being. But if we get a
surprise, it's not going to be the death
of shale. It's going to be that wow, we
can recover a lot more. We even got more
efficient. Bob, thank you, sir. Let's do
it again soon. Rapid and Energy Group
President Bob McN there on the
developments over the weekend. Let's
give you an update on stories worldwide
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross back over to Vonnie Quinn
for more. Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. The operators of a
Swiss bar where 40 people were killed on
New Year's Eve, are facing a criminal
investigation and possible charges of
negligent homicide. The fire, which may
have been [music] caused by sparklers
igniting the soundproofing insulation,
also left 119 people injured. According
to multiple reports, the bar in the ski
resort of Kontana is owned by a French
couple.
The Trump administration is taking early
steps to reopen the American embassy in
Venezuela following the removal of
Nicholas Maduro. Sources telling
Bloomberg current work [music] is
preliminary and no decision has yet been
made. The embassy originally suspended
operations in 2019, pushing
responsibilities to neighboring
Colombia.
Avatar 3 led the weekend box office,
collecting $41 million in North American
theaters in its third weekend. [music]
Disney's Zootopia 2 remaining at number
two. After six weekends of release, the
animated sequel has grossed to $1.48
billion dollars globally, outperforming
Frozen 2 to become Walt Disney
Animation's [music] highest grossing
movie of all time. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> Fonnie, thank you. More from Fony in the
next hour. Up next, the flight to
safety.
>> The distribution of risks to the rate
outlook is skewed to the downside.
you're just going to have a better
environment for risk-taking and fixed
income, especially in the treasury
market.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Jim Biano
of Biano Research, live from New York
City this morning. Good morning. You're
watching Blimbo [music] TV.
[music]
Get yourself out for the opening bow
later on this morning, 9:30 Eastern
time. Of course, as we count you down to
that, futures positive by 0.3% on the
S&P on the NASDAQ up by 0.65.
And the surveillance this morning, the
flight to safety,
>> the distribution of risks to the rate
outlook is skewed to the downside. We do
believe it means likely lower rates,
steeper curve, lower real rates, higher
inflation, lower volatility. All of this
points to a very supportive backdrop for
activity and continued easing in
financial conditions over the course of
2026. You're just going to have a better
environment for risk-taking and fixed
income, [music] especially in the
Treasury market. Well, here's the latest
in the Treasury market so far this
morning. Yields falling for the first
time in a week on escalating
geopolitical tensions, adding to the
gains we saw through last year, a 40
basis point move lower on a 10-year
maturity through the year. This morning,
we're down to 41671.
to discuss. Joining us now is Jim Biano
of Biano Research. Jim, welcome to the
show, sir. The move at the front end,
phenomenal, of course, in line with rate
reductions at the Federal Reserve, but
it wasn't reserved to the front end of
the curve. We also saw that rally in the
longer end of the curve in a 10-year
maturity. Bit of leakage in a third
year. We can get to that in a moment.
Jim, what do you think was behind that
move given the Salame America story that
really emerged in April, then was very
quickly ignored in the back half of the
year?
>> Well, I think we need to first put that
in a little bit of perspective. In 2025,
all the 10-year yields around the
developed world were either unchanged or
higher. The only one that was lower was
the US. All the 30-year yields, not
every country has a 30-year, were
unchanged to higher, including the US.
So, there was only one long-term yield
around the world that went down last
year, and that was the US 10-year yield.
So, something specific to the 10-year
yield happened last year. Now, if I had
to guess, it's not the GDP numbers, it's
not the inflation numbers because
everybody else had very similar, I'm
talking about the developed world had
very similar type of numbers, but their
yields went up. I think the difference
might be political and that is the
president has tied his success to lower
10-year yields and has been demanding
that the Federal Reserve cut interest
rates. And that had had an effect in
2025. Whether it does in 2026 is a
different question. Jim, you're
suggesting there is almost an implicit
Treasury perk coming from the
administration that's making people
reluctant to sell that specific
maturity.
>> Yeah, I am because that specific
maturity was the only one that was down.
Now, if we had a bunch of them down on
yield, like the US was down 40 basis
points in the 10-year, then I would
argue to you that, you know, it wasn't.
But there was something specific about
that maturity, and I don't think that
that can last forever. It did last for
2025. So really it's going to come down
to what is the economics of 2026. Now if
it looks like 25, but we had strong
growth. We had a 4.3% GDP in the third
quarter, the last number we had. We had
inflation. It is still in the upper
twos. We're almost 6 years past the
beginning of COVID and we're still
nowhere near 2%. That those types of
numbers will produce higher 10ear yields
throughout 2026. Jim, as you consider
the rest of the world, not just the US
bond market, but the global bond market,
is the center of gravity for US bonds in
the US or the dynamics that you're
speaking to actually elsewhere. They in
places like Japan.
>> Oh, I think you're right that where it's
not, if I could talk about the default
is it's not in China anymore. China's
now fallen to the third largest country
that owns treasuries behind the UK. And
so it has definitely moved to somewhat
in Japan and that is probably a net
negative with their rates going up. The
incentive to sell US uh fixed income
securities and move back to China uh to
Japan, excuse me, grows every day. So
yes, then by default it comes back to
the US and it comes back to Fed policy
and that comes back to how the growth
is. And I'll remind everybody that if
you look at the last Fed meeting, it was
a 93 vote. But if you look at the way
that everybody was talking, it might
have been 109 among the 19 members of
the Fed whether or not they should have
cut rates at the December meeting. So if
we could continue to get strong growth
like this, we might not see another rate
cut through 2026.
>> Do you think 2026 will be risks or
opportunities to market participants,
especially given the stunning
developments just over the weekend when
it comes to foreign policy of this
administration?
Well, there's always going to be risks,
but I guess the real question is where
do the risks come? Do they come in
denting growth or slowing down growth or
do they come in potentially pushing up
inflation? And I would, you know, I am
one that has been and continues to be
concerned about inflation. Um, what
happened in Venezuela is a good
long-term story for crude oil, but it
might not even be a 2026 story uh for
crude oil. If anything, it might be
somewhat bullish for crude oil over the
very short term as they cut off uh
shipments to China that has to replace
it by buying it from other places uh and
pushing it up just over the very short
term. But longer term, it could be. But
I think that most of the risks that I
see are going to lead to them to
inflation staying in the high twos to
the low 3s and the market starting to
realize that a 3 and 12% funds rate and
a 4.2% 2% or so 10-year yield might be
too low.
>> When it comes to inflation, what makes
you the most nervous? Because many
people were talking about tariffs last
year, but we haven't seen a real impact
on that
>> yet. And the reason I say yet is that
while you look at the announced rates
that the uh the Trump administration has
said about tariffs, it averages about 17
to 18% is what the tariff rate was. A
year ago, it was two. So, we went from 2
to 17. But if you look at the actual
tariffs collected, it's more around 10%.
And I think that accounts for a lot of
why you're not seeing the inflation in
tariffs because the collection of those
tariffs takes time. But that 10% number
has been moving up all year and it's at
its highest level in um November, the
last data that we have. And I suspect
that that number will continue to move
up into 2026. And that tariff story
about inflation might still be ahead of
us probably around the middle of next
year. Jim, let's finish on the
unintended consequences of the
president's push for lower interest
rates. We spoke to Ed Jardani earlier on
this morning and he echoed your argument
that I want to give you some credit for
as well. The fact that this has
galvanized every voter on the committee
and it's a change from what we've seen
under previous leadership at the Federal
Reserve. Jim, can you just spend some
time fleshing out what's happening here
and why it might be consequential for
the year ahead?
>> For the last 40 years, everybody votes
with what the chairman wants. They talk
internally and then they come to an
agreement before the meeting. And that's
why you get these 120 11 votes. But now
it looks like the Fed is shifting to be
more like the Bank of England or the
Bank of Japan. And that is is that each
voter is going to vote independently or
think the Supreme Court. We saw 93.
There was a good argument that you could
have had a 75 vote. I've advocated that
that would actually be a positive for
the Fed, not a negative. each each
governor, each president is supposed to
represent the American people and vote
the way that they think is po is the
best for monetary policy. And there
should be disagreement in that. And if
they start to move that way, the biggest
thing that could happen is President
Trump could put somebody in place. That
person could advocate for what President
Trump wants, 1% funds, but does he have
seven votes to get it? And he might not
have seven votes to get it in 2026 if
the economy stays strong and inflation
stays sticky. And that could be a big
departure from what we've seen from the
Fed in recent decades.
>> Jim, is that one of the main pillars for
your call for this year that ultimately
we don't get much action from the
Federal Reserve?
>> Yeah, I think so. I think there's a lot
of people that are thinking two or three
cuts because we're going to get an uber
doubish Fed chairman because Trump is
going to replace Jay Pal by May. But
again, it really comes down to yes, in
the old way, the chairman would tell
everybody how to vote and they would
disagree internally, but they would do
what he would want. But in the new way,
they might just say, "No, you just don't
have the votes for it. We're going to
vote otherwise on this policy."
>> Jim, thoughtful. Good to see you. We'll
see more of you, no doubt. Jim Biano
there of Biano Research. This idea that
you get a noisier but less effective
doubish core at the Federal Reserve.
>> Well, this is why so many people say
just elevate Governor Waller. One, he's
the market view as credible. Two, he
actually is an individual that could
potentially change votes, could
potentially take a hawk and say, "Let's
get one more interest rate cut." We
basically saw him maybe push Powell in
that direction given the Jackson Hole
speech. So that is why so many people
say it's a deliberative body. Play the
smart musical chairs. Elevate Waller.
Get another vote on someone else you
could put in there. But I don't know.
Sounds like they might pick [music] one
of the cabin.
>> It's certainly taking longer than we
thought it would. That's for sure. Up
next on the program, we'll catch up with
Chris Harvey of CIBC, Dan Pickering
[music] of Pickering Energy Partners,
Adichave of Bank of America, and Gil
Lauria of DA Davidson. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance just around a
corner from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
Respect the trend, but don't ignore the
risks. As we go into 2026,
>> earnings are going to be what drive
stock prices.
>> You're going to see a lot of churning,
but have moderate returns. I still think
tech is long-term leadership.
>> There's a 30% [music]
chance that you get a full-on bubble
next year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now. And
your scores look like this. The events
over the weekend shocking for the world
of international relations. Not for this
market. Futures up by 0.3% [music] on
the S&P. on the NASDAQ up by 0.7. The
energy market unmoved. Bren and WTI
going absolutely nowhere this morning.
Up by 0.8% on [music] Bren and both WTI
as well. If you want to move, it's in
the pre-market. It's the likes of
Chevron, one of the rare [music]
companies right now that actually still
operates in the energy sector in
Venezuela. Chevron up by more than 6% so
far this morning.
>> And that's because it has a [music]
special license despite US sanctions to
operate in the country. They have been
there for 100 years and they account for
about 25% Jonathan of Venezuela's
[music] output. When it comes to Exxon
Kico Phillips, will they actually go
back in? A lot of people say yes, but
this is going to be billions of dollars.
It's going to be years and it's going to
be decades. And as you noted earlier,
these are companies that got burned in
the past under Yugo Chavez when they
nationalized uh these companies and
their assets. They all fled. They sued
the governments and they only got a
fraction back from the Venezuelan
government that they actually should
have received. So there is going to be a
lot of boardroom discussions amongst
these oil giants on whether or not they
want to go take that risk. [music]
>> This is a multi-deade story. It's not
happening tomorrow. And to take stock of
the conversations over the past few
hours. This is not a one-off event over
the weekend. It's the start of a much
much longer process. At least so far
this morning. Chevron's getting some of
the gains. If you look at how swan the
bond market, yields are lower across the
curve. We've got twos down a basis
point, 10's down by two. Let's call it
417. This off the back of a big rally
last year on both the front end on twos
and further out on tens as well. Over
the last 60 minutes or so, two guests on
this program, Edgard Denny, Jim Biano,
making the point that the president's
push for lower interest rates is having
unintended consequences [music] and
galvanizing the other votes on the rest
of the committee, which offers you a
noisier doubbish [music] core on the
Federal Reserve, but a less effective
one. And that's going to be something to
watch for the year ahead with the likes
of Jim Biano [music] saying you probably
get no interest rates for 2026.
>> Well, Jim Biano though is very concerned
and has been when it comes to inflation.
But to Edard Denny's point, which I
think was a very good one, if [music]
you, and we've heard this as well from
other economists, if you have an
individual that the market views as
basically a puppet of the Trump
administration, [music]
that galvanizes the other members of the
committee to be more outspoken, which in
the end maybe makes the Fed more
independent or at least minimum more
transparent.
>> Nice slow start to 26. Exactly what you
were looking for. It's great, isn't it?
It's absolutely fantastic. Looking
forward to navigating [music] these
choppy waters with you through the year
ahead. Coming up over the next 60
minutes, we'll catch up with Chris
Harvey of CIBC with stocks edging Kaya
Dan Pickering of Pickering Energy
Partners as Chevron rallies on
developments in Venezuela and Adich Bank
for Mario Securities looking ahead to
the December payrolls data due this
Friday. We begin this hour with stocks
rising to kick off the first full
trading week of 2026 after Ning's
bullish call in 25. Chris Harvey of CIBC
is eyeing only modest gains in the new
year, saying people are sleeping on a
lot of macro risk this year. Chris joins
us now for more. Chris, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Can I give you a ton of credit for your
call last [laughter] year?
>> Maybe a little bit.
>> It never changed through April. It just
stayed. I never understood what the 007
was about, but it never changed. It was
at 7K. You kept it there all year until
you left your old shop. Congratulations.
>> Thank you. Thank you. There was a lot of
this too will pass, right? I I didn't
quite understand why people we had seen
Trump 1.0 right 1.2 is Trump is going to
go out to the end degree and that he'll
come back in and I think people for some
reason just lost their nerve and at the
end of the day uh things that we
expected to really help out deregulation
more M&A activity tight credit spreads
and easier Fed were all there. So, if
you follow the macro, if you follow the
fundamentals, it actually wasn't that
hard.
>> Credit to you to looking through the
noise because there was certainly a lot
of noise through last year. How is this
year going to be different? Just compare
the characteristics of last year to your
expectations for this year.
>> I I I think this year is different for a
lot of different reasons. One is many of
the things we were talking about last
year, people are now talking about
today. Hey, margins are going to expand.
Hey, the macro trade is really there.
Hey, the Fed's going to be easier. Hey,
how about taxes? How how about
deregulation? But the optimism is so
much higher. The other issue is, as we
said before, we think people are
sleeping on the macro risk. And this is
a macro risk this weekend or over the
last couple days. A macro risk we didn't
even see, right? And so people forget,
right? There's been a heck of a return
since um since liberation day and I
think people have gotten very very
comfortable and probably a little bit
too complacent.
>> We haven't seen massive market moves
though. So how much really was this
weekend a macro risk?
>> So it's not so much. So when we look at
Venezuela, we see an economy that's not
very big. We see oil production that's
not incredibly important. It's important
but not incredibly important. We see
steady production. Um so it's not a big
one but it shows you that macro risk can
come out of the blue and that you really
need to start looking at these things
and the way risk is priced. Risk is
priced for perfection. Right? We get
more macro risk like this. It's going to
be hard to keep risk priced where it is.
Do investors now think of 2026 in a
different light post Venezuela as
they're now trying to eye where there
are other places the US administration
may take a more aggressive foreign
policy approach.
>> I I don't think they think about 26
different because of Venezuela they are
really bowled up and maybe maybe too
much so um now the question is what what
was the main driver? Was it
affordability? Was it leverage for this
country or that country for USMCA? Was
it the US trying to show power versus
the rest of the world? I is it this
regional model we're putting a stamp on?
We're really trying to figure out what
was the major driver and what are the
ramifications. A lot of people are
talking about, hey, is when is this so
oil going to be a bigger oil producer or
less? You know, we'll leave that for
somebody else. But the macro drivers
were really toying with and it's not
clear what the main one was.
>> Lots of risk manifested and materialized
in the last 12 months. Bumped a run.
That was stunning. Saw the April events
with the tariffs that was phenomenal.
And then in the early part of last year,
we had the deep sig shock as well. We
got over that pretty quickly. It's
identifying the ones that actually
matter. Yeah. That seems to be difficult
right now. If I'd said to a lot of
people where payrolls and unemployment
would be through last year, they would
have said that would have been maybe be
a risk for the broader equity market and
and risk appetite and it wasn't. What
are the risks that matter for this year?
>> So I I think there are a couple. I think
the seauite after double digit gains
last year it it's prudent to come in
this year and manage expectations down.
Right? you start to manage expectations
down, that may take investors by shock.
Not shock, but by surprise. Two, I think
the Fed is probably a lot less dovish
than people think. We may not get a cut
with this Powell um with this Powell
Fed, right? If you look at what they're
saying is, hey, the economy is stronger,
inflation's down, we're back to neutral.
I'm going fishing, right? A and then if
you throw in a couple other things, we
still have tariffs, but really USMCA,
USMCA is going to be, I think, going to
be renegotiated in the first half of
this year, and that's not going to be
done. I don't think that's going to be a
smooth process. Let's just say that.
>> So, Chris, I I'm with you,
>> right?
>> Amy's with you, too. That could be
messy,
>> right?
>> But given what we went through in April,
why would it matter? We've just had the
ultimate stress test of all of that,
haven't we? It couldn't be any bigger or
any worse than what we saw take place
last year, could it? Well, well, it's
what we started with. Stock prices are a
lot higher now than they were back in
April.
>> You think there's less capacity now to
absorb bad news?
>> Valuation is higher. Risk is priced.
Credit spreads are less than 80 basis
points. Um, if you look at at some of
the risk measures in the equity market,
they've been they've had phenomenal
runs. And so expectations, optimism is
so much higher this year than last year.
>> John started this conversation saying
you got it right. You have a high pain
threshold going into 2026. Do you have
maybe less of a high pain threshold?
>> I It's not so much a pain threshold.
It's just I'm looking at things and I
just don't see as much opportunity this
year. You could have a meltup, sure, but
if you look at valuation, you look at
opportunities, you look at things that
aren't really priced by the marketplace,
there's not a ton of them out there.
>> So, I'm going to pick up on the Chris
Harvey argument of last year.
>> Yeah.
>> And sort of push back using your own
words, your own argument.
>> This year, the president has got to look
to the midterms, right?
>> He's already made a pivot towards
affordability.
>> Yeah. You've talked about ultimately
just stay the course, stick with it. We
know what the president wants. He
doesn't want a bad economy. He doesn't
want to have a bad result in the
midterms either for his Republican
party. Why would this year be any
different when it comes to those things?
Why wouldn't he lean even more into
trying to generate these optimal
outcomes for the economy and for
markets?
>> Right? So, a couple things. One, if you
look at at what's going to happen with
the big beautiful bill, right? Um, for
middle and lower class or little lower
income folks, I I would say your
refund's going to be bigger, your
take-home pay is going to be bigger. If
you look at what the Fed's doing,
they're starting to buy back treasuries.
You look at at M&A, M&A is good. It's
all really positive there, right? But
it's also a timing issue. What if the
Fed doesn't cut until June? That's not
priced in at this point in time, right?
What if something out of the blue comes
back into the picture? Like something
bigger than Venezuela, right? And and
what's the marginal driver to push us
higher? Like a lot there's a lot of gold
bulls out there, but one of the things I
keep saying is, hey, those marginal
drivers, hey, leverage is still there on
the sovereign side, but the big
beautiful bill, the fiscal spend in
Germany, in Canada, and other places has
already occurred, has already been
announced. What else is going to drive
it there? And I'm just at a loss for
those marginal drivers really pushing
things beyond where I think they can
get.
>> Is a $2,000 dividend check a marginal
driver?
>> Okay, so that's the question. Is there a
$2,000 check? Right, Trump, you're
right. John's right. They want to win
the midterm elections. They're going to
do a lot of things on affordability, but
how much more can they announce and
really do at this point in time, right?
And how much does the market push back?
And the other thing that was said on the
program before, we haven't even talked
about incorporating higher rates into
equity market prices. What if the tenure
is at four and a half%. We're not really
thinking about that, but that's that's
possible. And the other thing we're not
talking about is, hey, we could just
have event risk, some some equity
shocks, and we've seen over the last 12
months how that can really upset the
Apple cart.
>> You're starting to sound a little bit
bearish. What do you do in terms of
hedges? Uh so hedges if you look at
lowval if you look at high quality if
you look at staples um and some other
defensive sectors they've all been
they're really unloved and
underappreciated. That's the market
telling you you really need to start
adding some risk aversion to the
portfolio either with higher quality
lowval or some of those defensive
sectors.
>> Let's just define what bearish is in
2026. What's the year end price target?
[laughter]
>> 74 wall of worry though.
>> I I hear you. But it kind of speaks to
the world we're in, right? It's a grind
down.
>> It's going to be a good year or a decent
year, but there's going to be We think
there's a lot more volatility. There's
going to be bounce of risk aversion.
This is not going to be smooth sailing
for 12 months of the year.
>> We've been just been spoiled by double
digit gains over the last few years,
haven't we?
>> I think so.
>> Chris Harvey of CIBC. Chris, it's good
to see you.
>> Good to see you, too.
>> Happy New Year. Thanks for dropping by.
Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Vonnie Quinn for more. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. The acting vice
president of Venezuela, Deli Rodriguez,
asking the US [music] to work with her
country as acting president. A sharp
turn from her initial statement calling
for Maduro's return. President Donald
Trump saying some rebuilding will be
needed in Venezuela, warning Rodriguez
that if she doesn't do what's [music]
right, she is going to pay a very big
price.
US airlines [music] are restarting their
Caribbean operations after the US strike
on Venezuela triggered airspace closures
across the region. Vacation hotspots
such as Barbados, Aruba, and Puerto Rico
saw hundreds of flight cancellations,
stranding thousands of passengers. The
airlines say it will take two to three
days to fully stabilize their [music]
networks.
Denmark's leader is warning President
Donald Trump to stop threatening to
annex Greenland. Meta Frederickson
writing, "The US has no right to annex
any of the three [music] countries of
the Kingdom of Denmark."
Trump argues the US control of Greenland
is necessary for national security
[music] and says he'd revisit the issue
in two months. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next, the Morning Calls. Plus, Dan
Pickering of Pickering Energy Partners
as Chevron rallies on developments in
Venezuela. That stock is up by 6.3%.
Live [music] from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> There's a wide and deep set of big
questions that these oil companies and
their boards are going to consider
before they they rush in. Market's got
this right. It's a nothing burger for
short-term crude futures. It's a it's
another tailwind for US oil companies
majors coming after this sort of walk
back from this peak demand narrative.
>> Bob McN absolutely fantastic on the
program earlier of rapid and energy
advisers of course weigh in on these
stunning developments over the weekend
and the capture of the Venezuelan leader
Nicholas Maduro. It's a nothing burger
for the headline price but could be
something bigger looking further [music]
out.
>> Looking further out because you look at
the potential Venezuela has. You have
historically the biggest proven oil
reserves, at least they say, when it
comes to what's in the ground. At one
point in their history, they were
pumping nearly 4 million barrels a day.
Right now, it's about 800,000. So, you
could see the growth potential. The
issue is years, decades of
underinvestment, mismanagement. Do these
companies [music] want to go back into a
country that literally sees their
assets? That's a question.
>> Crude so far this morning up by 0.9%.
WTI 5781, Brent 6119. The broader equity
market grinding higher into the opening
bow. The cash open about 1 hour and 13
minutes away. Higher by a quarter of 1%
on the S&P on the NASDAQ up by 0.7.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls. First up, Jeffree
downgrading Adobe to hold, noting a lack
of AI growth in flection. [music] Your
second call from Missouo raising its
price target on Walmart to 125, seeing
the key underpinnings of spending still
intact. And finally, Bernstein [music]
lowering his price target on Exxon
Mobile to 137, expecting near-term
choppiness in the oil industry. That
stock is up high this morning. Off the
back of the developments over the
weekend, high by 2.7%. Let's stick with
energy. Chevron running in the
pre-market trading with President Donald
Trump pledging to revive the Venezuelan
energy sector. Dan Pickering of
Pickering Energy Partners joins us now
for more. Dan, welcome to the program,
sir. If we can just pick out that one
name, Chevron, what's their presence
like in the country at the moment? And
what's this market starting to sniff
out?
>> Sure. Chevron about 250,000 barrels a
day of production in Venezuela. Uh the
biggest meaningful external producer in
Venezuela. Um what's the market
deciding? They've probably got more
opportunities assuming there's a rule of
law and a good government that winds up
being in Venezuela. So I I think the
market says Chevron's got opportunity to
grow in Venezuela if the country
stabilizes. We know that the geological
risk is very minimal because we know the
oil is there. But at this price level,
is there a real incentive for these
companies like Kicoil, Exxon Mobile to
go back in?
>> All a function of the terms that they
get? I would assume that assuming
government support from the US that
there will be very attractive contracts
and that even at $50 a barrel, there'll
be profitability for the folks that come
in and invest in Venezuela's uh oil
business. I think we've got to we've got
to see that develop and understand the
actual terms. That's going to take a
while. It's going to take two or three
years to really meaningfully move
production because we got to get the
terms. We got to get the money in the
ground and then get the results.
>> What about the Chinese players that have
been angling to get into Venezuela and
that are physically there? Is there
going to be a real rush or fight between
China and the United States when it
comes to these assets?
>> Well, I think that it all depends on how
aggressive the United States is on
trying to quote unquote run the country.
Uh I think that the US views these
assets as something that could be
advantageous to uh us over a period of
time and they're going to try and keep
the Chinese out and the US and
international oil majors in. So the more
significant the US presence, the more
likely uh China's role is minimized. So
let's watch and see how uh President
Trump moves ahead with with managing
Venezuela over the next year. Dan, I
understand we're having a conversation
about things deep into the future, but
there seems to be a bit of tension
between the way people are thinking
about the energy market and the way
people thinking are thinking about the
energy stocks. Dan, given the potential
for increased supply, why is any of this
going to be good for the Chevron and
Exxon to this world?
>> Yeah. So, I think that that there is
there are winners here if Venezuela
opens up. It'll be the companies that go
in and can grow either their production,
their revenues if they're oil service
companies, etc. The reality is that
another million or two million barrels a
day from Venezuela long term is an
overhang for oil producers. I mean, it's
a boon to oil consumers, but um you
know, I think the market's early
reaction here is to pick winners and bid
them up. a bit of fear of missing out
given how how weak the oil sector's been
for the last couple years in terms of
the stock market performance. But I
think as you move out in time, uh there
will be a sorting out and a realization
this is probably a net negative for oil
price and therefore a little bit tougher
environment for the oil companies.
>> If it's a net negative for oil prices,
it might be challenging not just for oil
companies but pro states. Which one
around the table at the OPEC plus
meetings is going to potentially suffer
from this?
>> Yeah, I think if you look at OPEC plus
um more production from Venezuela is
just another source of supply that
they're competing with. Although
Venezuela is a member of OPEC, they
probably won't be governed by any sort
of quota restrictions. So if you look at
this, basically oil producers, whether
it's it's Saudi Arabia, um Russia, etc.,
all lose a bit on the margin. Again, how
quickly can Venezuela add meaningfully
to supply? The other issue, US shale
starting to mature, some other countries
starting to see a rollover in their
supply. So over time, are we going to
need more barrels from Venezuela and
other places? Sure. But in the
intermediate term, call the next two to
five years. All the oil producers lose,
including Venezuela's OPEC rather. Do
you have a line in the sand when you can
see potentially Saudi Arabia shifting
policy and wanting to take barrels off
the market to increase price?
>> Yeah, it feels like $50 give or take
WTI, maybe a bit lower, high 40s is the
pain point at which the whole industry
really starts to to feel a lot of uh
significant pressure. And so my my
guesstimate is that oil moves into the
high 40s, you know, 50 bucks a barrel,
everyone's going to be asking, "What
should we be doing differently?" OPEC
spent the last year bringing production
back? Do they really want to turn it off
again? Um, will US shale start to shrink
their investment? Will the majors start
to shrink their investment? So, I think
50 is this flash point. Also, remember
that we've heard from the US
administration, they want 50. So, will
the US try to strongarm OPEC into
keeping prices in that $50 level?
>> Dan, [snorts] as we speak to you,
there's a word that comes up time and
time again, and it's the word time. Um,
every informed guest we've spoken to
throughout this morning has used that
word, this is going to take time. What's
your evaluation of the timeline that we
all need to consider for future
developments in a place like Venezuela?
I talked about sort of this ideal world
and the way the media responds to these
stories. you're going to get the Nobel
Prize winner walks into Caracus, takes
over, democracy reigns, and they don't
talk about Venezuela ever again. Dan,
that's not how this is going to work.
Can you share with us how you think this
is going to work in your evaluation of
the timeline moving forward?
>> Sure. I think meaningful, call it half a
million barrels a day of incremental
supply is a 2029 issue. uh it's going to
take six months to figure out, you know,
literally what's going on in Venezuela,
who's in charge, what's the rule of law,
what's the back stop from the US
government in terms of of investments of
capital into the into Venezuelan oil
business. So, it's going to take a year
to get a system in place to be able to
spend money. You'll negotiate with
companies uh during that time period,
but you go back into an aging
infrastructure. uh the the oil industry
was dramatically higher, you know, over
the last 25 years, but it's fallen into
disrepair. You're going to have to spend
money to repair. You're going to have to
figure out what's going on. And so,
commercial arrangements take a year,
investments take a year plus, and then
you start to see the production in the
following years. The other thing is half
a million barrels a day. That's the easy
part. Uh because you just kind of rehab
existing facilities. really spending a
lot of money and getting production up
another million barrels a day probably
takes 5 to 10 years. So this is this is
not on TV time. This is on real world
time. And so I think 2029 for initial
production bump and then you're talking
in the 2030s before it's a meaningful
increase beyond maybe a million and a
half.
>> I tell you this on behalf of everyone
Dan. We appreciate the reality check.
Thank you sir. Dan Pickering there of
Pickering Energy Partners. This isn't
going to happen overnight. You don't
just make one move, remove Maduro and
move on. You've still got to negotiate
existing power structures in the
country. Now, you didn't see much
resistance over the weekend, but don't
just look at that and say there isn't
going to be any in the future either.
There are still existing power
structures that this government has got
to deal with. And I think that's why
ultimately you see this more pragmatic
approach, realistic approach coming from
Secretary Rubio over the weekend about
what needs to happen and the first early
steps are just the first early steps.
>> Right. When the president talks about
it, he says the oil companies are going
right in. But to Dan's point, to Yur's
point, this is going to take years. Not
just the power structures, but also just
negotiating an oil lease can take months
in and of itself. And at the same time,
this is a country that still has
sanctions. Chevron is operating because
they have a special basically waiver to
operate even though there are a lot of
sanctions. There's one country we didn't
talk about that I think is very
important, especially if you see Exxon
on the rise. They have a lot of assets
in Guyana and there's been a tremendous
amount of concern that Venezuela would
in would have some sort of incursion on
Guyana. That has been a risk that has
been completely removed right now for
Exxon Mobile in Latin America even if
they don't go into Venezuela.
>> That stock is up in the premarket.
Chevron as well by 6%. The broader
equity market doing just okay, [music]
just about okay going into the opening
bell about an hour away by about 2/10 of
1%. Up next on the program, we'll catch
up with Nichave of Bank of America,
looking ahead to the December payroll
report. Plus, Danny has your morning
movers. Another look at the energy
sector following the stunning moves over
the weekend by the US government.
[music]
The risk events piled high already to
start the year in 2026. We've got
payrolls on Friday. On the 13th, you've
got bank earnings. JP Morgan kicking
[music] things off just around the
corner. And then the next Fed meeting at
the end of this month as well. They're
the scheduled dates. The other risk
factors you need to think about, Supreme
Court tariff ruling. [music] Still
waiting for that. That's one. And share
pound replacement. That's two. No dates
for either of those two things.
>> I actually naively maybe thought that
we'd be starting [music] this week on
your welcome back first day back after
paternity leave. Congratulations. We
maybe talking about the Fed chair, the
new pick [music] from Mara Lago that the
president would have been announcing,
not Venezuela. That didn't happen yet.
We were supposed to have that in the
fall. They keep dragging this out. We do
[music] know that he did have some
interviews though over the Christmas
break. So potentially we will get the
Fed chair pick and then tariffs is a
huge question mark for this
administration and what their steps
forward is [music] going to be but also
for seauitees around America
>> of the things that didn't happen in the
last year which were more surprising
than the things that did the lack of
tariff inflation passed through one I
think and the fact that the [music]
April 2nd story ultimately didn't matter
to the equity market by the time we got
to the end of the year. [music]
>> Yep. It mattered for a few days and then
at the end of the day the president said
the bond market was a little bit yippy.
He was pushing back on his policies that
ended up being the [music] Trump put
when it comes to something that could
re-calibrate his policies. And then they
went into full-on negotiating mode with
these countries. And now we're starting
out this year potentially with all those
tariffs being evaporated if the Supreme
Court deems AIPA illegal.
>> So as we're still here deep into look
ahead season, just remember this. You
can predict with accuracy what will
happen. What is harder, much harder is
understanding what it will mean for
financial markets. So even if you
predict with accuracy what will happen,
you can still get the market cool rock,
which would speak to what happened with
Terrace last year and a whole bunch of
other things as well. Futures this
morning high by a quarter of 1% on the
S&P 500. On the NASDAQ 100, higher by
[music] 0.7 on the Russell were up by
about a tenth of 1%. This market game is
hard, really hard. As we count down to
the cash open, let's get you some
morning movers with Danny Burgerer. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. Here are the winners of
today's session at least in the
pre-market and it is energy and oil
related stocks. Chevron seen as one of
the biggest beneficiaries. If the US
does take control of Venezuelan oil,
shares are up six and a quarter percent.
For Baker Hughes, that goes up 5.6%.
Hallebertton 8%. So, some of the energy
equipment makers also doing very well.
[music] Elsewhere, it's much the same
story for the start of 2026 as it was
for 25. And that is AI stocks doing
well. We're seeing a rally led also by
memory chip stocks this morning. MU
Micron up nearly 3%. SanDisk those
shares up 3.3%. Finally ending things
with a little bit of sellside action.
Estee Lauder getting a double upgrade
from Raymond James saying that their
earnings has hit a trough. A rebound is
going to happen both in the US and
Chinese markets thanks to product
selection and innovation from the beauty
company. So those shares up 3.7% in the
pre-market. John
>> Danny, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Danny alongside Matt Miller in
about 27 minutes time as they kick off
the program. Count you down to the up
and bell at 9:00 a.m. Eastern time.
Let's turn to the economy. We've got a
full week of data on deck. Bloomberg's
and Mike McKe getting no days off. He
joined us now for more. Good morning,
Mike. What can we look forward to?
>> Well, good morning, John. Welcome back.
And uh we got this in from the uh double
secret trilateral commission
headquarters in Washington. They wanted
to make sure that nothing happened in
the economy while you were gone. So now
we can finally move forward with some
data that will mean something. Starting
today with the ISM numbers uh from the
manufacturing side. On Wednesday, we get
the services side plus ADP and Jolts.
ADP Jolts ISM. That's the acronym day.
Thursday, jobless claims and
productivity. That'll be interesting.
And Friday, of course, the December jobs
report. And that'll be a full jobs
report. So, things to watch. One thing
besides the numbers in the ISM uh
reports is the company comments. We've
heard in some of the regional uh uh ISM
[clears throat]
uh reports that companies are still
uncertain about where the economy is
going and that's slowing down all of
their decisionmaking. Let's see what
they have to say today. Productivity may
be a tell on hiring and inflation.
Hiring has been very low. Inflation has
remained high and yet if productivity is
really high then that could be good news
on both fronts. We'll have to see what
that tells us. The jobs forecast 59,000
at the moment and unemployment falling
to 4.5% from 4.6%. And as you mentioned
earlier, we're on watch for the Trump
Fed chair announcement doesn't
necessarily come this week, but it's
going to come soon, I would imagine. But
uh as to what you were saying about
making predictions uh just before we
came on here, uh I think back to Yogi
Barra who said predictions are hard,
especially about the future.
>> Well said. And well said Yogi as well.
Uh Mike, I just want to lean on some of
the developments of the last 12 months
or so. All these little pockets of
tension in this US economy. Consumer
sentiment's been rock bottom. Not great,
but spending's been pretty decent.
Payroll's growth has been really
sluggish and slow, but earnings have
been tremendous, at least for S&P 500
companies and the larger companies in
corporate America. Mike, how is the Fed
thinking about these developments? The
fact that you can have pockets of
weakness out somewhere and then pockets
of strength elsewhere. Well, they're as
uncertain, I'd put it, as everybody else
about where this is going and their
forecasts really don't have a lot of
confidence in them at this point because
uh all these things are yet to play out.
You were talking about the Supreme Court
decision on tariffs and how that's going
to move forward and now we have this
international uh geopolitical stuff that
Donald Trump is doing. uh good news for
the economy is that it was a very quick
and uh seems to have been decisive
without injury uh to the United States
uh move but that could have really
affected consumer confidence if we
started a war where we started losing
American lives. So all these things are
on the horizon and we just have to take
it sort of week by week and data point
by data point. Right now, the bet is
we're going to see the Fed on hold in
January, but uh I think that Ian Lingan
at put it uh this morning that that
is subject to change at any moment.
>> Mike, thank you, sir. And particularly
that moment on Friday morning, 8:30
Eastern time, could change things all
over again. Adisha of Bank of America
Securities writing, "Fed policy in the
near term will depend more on the labor
market than inflation. expect the
decision to hinge largely on the
December unemployment rate. 4.5% or
lower should seal a hold. Adich joins us
now for more. Adicha, good morning.
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me.
>> Good to see you. Happy New Year. What
are you expecting for Friday morning?
>> 4.5%. Okay. On the unemployment rate,
>> so hold over at the Federal Reserve.
>> Yes. So, we don't think the Fed will cut
again under Chair Powell. But just
talking about the jobs report for a
second, the unemployment rate is
absolutely the most important indicator.
We're looking for a drop from 46 in
November to 45 in December. And the
reason for that is that we assessed that
shutdown related distortions added at
least a tenth to the unemployment rate
in November. In fact, we think it could
even round down to 44 in December.
>> Not to be too cheeky, but what if it is
one of those 4.54
etc etc decimal place unemployment rate?
They are really on the line then, aren't
they? How difficult is that call?
>> I agree. I think it's going to be a very
close call if we stay around where we
were in November because then you're
saying you get the same unemployment
rate but without those distortions then
to be perfectly honest I think the Fed
will fit their story to whatever they
were planning to do anyway.
>> Is this going to be a clean read or
there still distortions given the 40
plus day US government shutdown?
>> December should be a clean read.
>> Okay, that's at least positive in that
sense.
>> It should be a clean read. I'm still
concerned about the response rates being
somewhat low, but at least not
distorted, just noisy.
>> So, let's take the data that we've got
so far. Mike and I were talking about
it. Growth's been okay. Yep.
>> Hiring's been terrible. You expecting
jobless growth in 26 as well?
>> So, productivity is the key theme for
the Fed in the medium-term. I think it's
one of the most important themes of
2026. How does the Fed respond to
productivity? This will determine the
medium-term path of policy. So, on the
one hand, productivity is
disinflationary. That means policy
doesn't have to be as tight. But on the
other hand, it also raises the neutral
rate, which means you don't need to cut
because you're already close to neutral.
And we think that the Fed might end up
leaning more towards the first argument,
particularly with a new chair who's more
doubbish. And so we have another 50
basis points in our forecast for this
year of Fed cuts, though honestly we
don't think that's necessary.
>> So let's just get into how you're
framing 26. You've got the Fed share, J.
Pal, and then you've got the next Fed
share,
>> correct? And under power, you're saying
no cuts, no more cuts. And under the
next guy, whoever it might be, you're
saying 50 basis points. Is that of
because of who they are or because of
the economic data points you expect at
any given time this year?
>> If you look at the five finalists,
they've all leaned somewhat doubbish in
terms of policy rates. We think that
with the current committee, it's going
to be possible to get another 50-ish
basis points of cuts. So down to around
3%. below that will be very challenging
unless of course we're wrong on growth
and the the labor market slows down a
lot more than expected.
>> One thing we've gone through throughout
this morning has been the unintended
consequences of pushing this committee
to deliver lower interest rates that
somehow it's galvanized every single
voter and this is going to be a
different regime under the next Fed
chair. Is that how you think about the
incoming committee too?
>> Well, the hawks have certainly been very
vocal and you're getting a couple of
very vocal hawks rotating onto the
committee this year. So if they do cut
further at least in the near term at
least without a significant
deterioration in labor you're going to
get descents from Hammock Logan possibly
Kashkari
it's going to be tough for them to to to
cut a lot more again unless you have the
the unemployment rate moving towards 5%
in which case there's no debate.
>> We haven't really talked about tariffs.
Do you think that 2026 we can see more
of the pass through from tariffs on
inflation? So our estimate is quite
similar to the feds that there's been
about 30 to 50 basis points of pass
through in terms of the impact on core
PC inflation. So without the tariffs
we'd be somewhere between 2 3 and 2.5%.
That should continue through this year.
There's going to be obviously the annual
price increases at the start of the
year. That could be an opportunity to
raise prices. And then don't forget
fiscal stimulus is kicking in very soon
starting in February with tax refunds.
though that pick up in demand as a
result of fiscal stimulus could be
another opportunity for retailers to
>> and inflation is already stuck above
target but you're more concerned about
the labor market even given all those
reasons you just mentioned about
inflation
>> so there seems to be consensus at the
Fed right now that XF tariffs you're in
the low twos will you stay there
probably but you could end up around
2.5% which we think is uncomfortable but
the Fed seems to be okay with with the
inflation side of things for now so in
the near term That's why we're saying
it's going to be about the labor market.
>> Adicha, it's good to see you. It's going
to be about the labor market throughout
this week. Lots of labor market data
going into payrolls. Payrolls Friday
just around the corner this Friday.
Actually getting things on time, on
schedule.
>> I'm so excited for that. And then Adia
saying it's going to be a clean read.
I'm even more excited for that.
Potentially no more of this noisy data
because of, you know, let's just call it
the circus in Washington.
>> The circus in Washington. The median
estimate 59K for this Friday. The high
is 155. The low is 25K. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Vonnie Quinn for more. Hey
Vonnie.
>> Hey John, thank you. Chevron among the
US oil company stocks rising in the
pre-market after President Trump said
the US plans to run Venezuela. Chevron
is the only major American oil company
currently operating [music] in the
nation. It has seen its best position to
immediately benefit from more US control
over Venezuela's crude supply.
The first buddy might be back. President
Trump praising Tesla CEO Elon Musk after
a dinner over the weekend. He said he's
quote 80% super genius and 20% he makes
mistakes. This all as Musk posted a
photo of the pair and the first lady and
comes after months of cooling relations
between Trump [music] and Musk.
In sports, the Denver Broncos and
Seattle Seahawks officially locked up
the number one seeds for the NFL
playoffs. Meanwhile, the Panthers were
crowned the NFC South champs thanks to a
Falcons win over the Saints and the
Steelers punched their ticket with a
[music] thrilling Sunday night win over
Baltimore. Playoffs begin this weekend.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John,
thank you. Just want to get you up to
speed on a headline that just crossed
the Bloomberg terminal. If you go to the
commodity sector, you might think we're
going to talk about crude energy, but
that's not been a story this morning on
the [music] Alam the London Metal
Exchange. copper this morning just
through 13K very very briefly.
>> Well, it had a 42% rise in 2025 [music]
post the best year since 2009. What's so
interesting about copper is that we've
seen the entire commodity complex move
higher, but copper is needed for the
energy transition [music] and it's
really needed for the physical world and
also there is concern from traders that
potentially there's going to be higher
tariffs on copper this year [music] and
Trump is mulling that. So what do you
do? The prices are going to go higher
and potentially want to start
stockpiling even more. The copper this
morning higher by more than 4%. Up next
on the program, we'll set you up for the
day ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with Gil
Lauria of DA Davidson on the year ahead
for AI stocks from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
>> [music]
>> We come into the new year prepared for
some volatility. Some of the themes from
last year are continuing into this year.
Um what I really [music] sensed in
December was a strong sense to rotate um
and to seek out value. And so there was
a lot of interest in not just talking
about the AI trade. And frankly, I
wouldn't say everybody's like come to,
you know, to the moment where they hate
that trade and want to abandon it. But,
you know, there's just more interest,
frankly, in talking about what's cheap
and what's maybe the next leg of that
[music] trade.
>> Good to start the year with Lori
Cavversina of RBC looking ahead to a
broadening out in the equity market for
2026. The average target in our survey
here at Bloomberg for the S&P 500 is
755. The high is 8,100. That's from
Oppenheimer. The low is 7K. That's from
[music] Stifel. If you're counting down
to the up and down this morning, that is
about 43 minutes away. And your price
action looks like this. Equity futures
on the S&P [music] up by 0.3% on the
NASDAQ 100 up by 0.7 pushing higher on
small caps this morning. The Russell up
by 0.2. As we count you down to the cash
open, here's the trading diary for the
next 24 hours and the week ahead. At
noon, Nicholas Maduro and his wife
appearing in Manhattan, a federal court.
Just amazing to see this take place here
in New York City. At 4 p.m. Eastern
[music] time, Nvidia CEO Jensen Wang
giving a press conference at CES. 5:30
Eastern, the Trump administration
reportedly briefing select lawmakers on
Venezuela. [music]
Onto Wednesday, ADP data jobs and ISM
services. Thursday, another round of
jobless claims. The big data point on
Friday, of course, is payrolls Friday
just around the corner to kick off 26.
Let's talk about CES and turn to tech.
This year [music] shaping up to be the
show me trade for the AI story. Gil
Lauria of DAD Davidson writing 2026 will
be the year we find out a lot about how
much of a bubble we're in with AI. The
first clue will be open AI's fund raise.
Gil joins us now for more. Gil, welcome
to the program. Happy New Year. Why are
you focused on that specifically and
what does that mean for the broader
ecosystem?
>> Well, a lot of the incremental spend or
the incremental spend that's been
promised was promised by Open AI. So, if
they can live up to that expectation of
raising $100 billion of equity at a $750
billion valuation by the end of March,
that will fuel the AI trade at least for
the rest of the year and that means a
lot of the incremental players can win
as well. Having said that, we're a
little skeptical. It is a that is a lot
of money to raise at a very high
valuation. They already had a little bit
of a hard time raising capital nine
months ago from Soft Bank. Soft Bank had
a hard time getting that capital and
that's when OpenAI was considered the
the leader and it was at a $300 billion
valuation. So, it's very challenging.
But if it does happen, it can fuel a lot
of incremental players. Now, because
those are the two scenarios, they're
either successful and fuel the flames or
not successful and then we have to
reconsider the AI trade. We're focused
on the companies that win either way and
that continues to go back to Microsoft
and Nvidia. That original AI trade
should work in a very wide range of
scenarios. It sounds like this Open AI,
whether or not they can raise the 100
billion of equity by the end of March is
really a litmus test for you. When you
think about Open AI, do you think they
could take the reigns back from Google's
Gemini?
>> Well, that's one of the things that's
going to have to come out over the next
few months as they fundra. They're going
to want to show what they can do. They
want to show that they're going to want
to have new models that in their mind at
least are better than Google's models.
So they can show that they still have
leadership here because if they can't do
that, it's going to be very hard to do
this fund raise. If the leaders remain
Google and anthropic, then open AI is
going to have a hard time justifying the
financial targets that it's been setting
100 billion in 2027,
two to 300 billion of revenue by 2030.
Unless they have the best model and the
best model by far, it's going to be very
hard for them to make that case. So that
all has to happen imminently for them to
be able to have a successful fund raise.
>> G, will you allow me just to draw a
distinction between company analysis and
stock analysis? And just let me ask you
what you're offering here because when
you say that OpenAI might receive push
back and Nvidia can win in any kind of
scenario, I understand that from a
company spec specific perspective,
they'll still make money. I've got that.
But the idea that the stock will do well
in that environment. Can you explain
that?
>> Yeah. The the spend on Nvidia comes from
real companies that have real customers,
right? So Microsoft, Amazon, Google have
all the customers, all the business
customers and almost all the consumer
customers. By the time you add Meta and
all the Elon ventures, there is enough
demand there to live up to for Nvidia to
live up to their expectations next year.
In fact, they gave us the long-term
guidance or guidance through this year
for the first time in a long time. They
have the orders for significant growth
this year and that's without even having
China in the mix.
>> Play this out. Allow me to jump in.
Let's say Open AAI has to tap the brakes
because they receive push back.
>> Don't some of the hyperscalers that are
rushing to compete with the likes of
OpenAI then feel a little bit more
comfortable and they don't receive or at
least feel the pressure of that
existential threat coming from that
company.
Well, those companies are building for
us to be able to use chat and they care
less whose chat that is. So, Google will
build for Gemini even if there is no
OpenAI, which there will be. Let's be
clear, OpenAI will continue. Chad GPT
will continue to be successful. It's
just a matter of how much spending money
they have. And that will that use of
Chad GPT will continue to come through
Microsoft primarily and somewhat through
Amazon. Anthropic will continue to grow.
That will continue to come through
Amazon. We are going to continue to use
AI tools more and more. They are very
good and they're getting better. The
question is how much fuel are we going
to throw into the fire? And right now
there's enough de real demand that can
drive growth for those bigger companies.
The question is, are we going to have
this excess demand come from incremental
capital and more leverage and more
companies borrowing money speculatively?
That's where we think we may come short
came out short. And again, that's bad
for the incremental players, not for
those big core players.
>> But girl, I hope you understand where
I'm coming from here. that yes, those
companies will still make money. But in
a world where OpenAI receives push back,
can you imagine a world where the stock
Nvidia stock doesn't do well as well?
>> Now, that's possible, but let's not
forget a lot of that money that OpenAI
is raising is not for Nvidia. OpenAI
wants to build its own chips, right?
That's that's Broadcom. They want to buy
from AMD. They want to make their own
hardware with Johnny IV. They want to
get into enterprise software. So a lot
so their core spend which will probably
continue anyway will be through
Microsoft and Nvidia. The hundred
billion dollar they're trying to raise
is their shot at becoming their own mega
cap and spending on a lot of other
things. They're trying to raise extra
spending money for that goes well beyond
the compute they need for Chad GPT and
that's been fueling all these other
stocks. Your oracles, your Broadcoms,
your AMDs, your Alos, even the Quantum
stocks.
>> If OpenAI can't raise the hundred
billion dollars, they'll raise
something. They'll continue to fuel Chad
GPT, which again is Microsoft and
Nvidia. So yes, that's why we think
Microsoft Nvidia will be fine either
way.
>> Gil, thank you, sir. Gil Laura of DA
Davidson looking ahead to the year ahead
for 2026. That wraps up the program this
morning. Easing into the new year, AMH,
very slowly, very simply this Monday
morning.
>> Not quite. There's seismic shifts going
on when it comes to geopolitics and
foreign policy. This is not the
conversation I thought we were going to
be having to start the new year. I truly
thought we were going to get an Fed
chair announcement. We didn't. But I
would have to say from me and the team,
congratulations and we are so excited
you're back.
>> Thank you. Thank you very much. Got some
experience of waking up in the middle of
the night, you know, like 12, one, two,
>> you've been prepared for this.
>> I've been ready been ready for like the
last 10, 15 years. Here we are. Equity
futures this morning positive by about
0.3% on the S&P 500. Lots to look
forward to through the week ahead. Lots
of economic data. The schedule shaping
up as follows. On Friday, we've got a
payroll report. The following week,
earnings from JP Morgan, the big banks
kicking off earnings season. And then by
the time we get to month end, which is
going to be upon us pretty quickly,
we've got another Federal Reserve
interest rate decision. And a lot of the
guests on this program pushing back
against expectations for further
interest rate reductions. Some including
Jim Biano of Biano Research suggesting
you will get no interest rate cuts under
this Federal Reserve from both the
chairman Pal Fed [music] and the next
Fed too. Coming up tomorrow, Bloomberg
Technology will have interviews with
Nvidia CEO Jensen Wang and AMD CEO Lisa
Sue live from CES. Look out for all of
that coming up on Bloomberg
Surveillance. We'll catch up with Julian
Emanuel of Evercore, Emily Roland of
John Hancock Investment Management, Matt
Hornbach of Morgan Stanley, Lizanne
Saunders at Charles Swap from New York
City this morning. Good morning. Have a
wonderful trading week. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]